of Records.
143 The Governor General in Council may from Time to Time order that such and so many of the Records, Books, and Documents of the Province of Canada as he thinks fit shall be appropriated and delivered either to Ontario or to Quebec, and the same shall thenceforth be the Property of that Province; and any Copy thereof or Extract therefrom, duly certified by the Officer having charge of the Original thereof, shall be admitted as Evidence,

Constitution of Townships in Quebec.
144 The Lieutenant Governor of Quebec may from Time to Time, by Proclamation under the Great Seal of the Province, to take effect from a Day to be appointed therein, constitute Townships in those Parts of the Province of Quebec in which Townships are not then already constituted, and fix the Metes and Bounds thereof.

X. Intercolonial Railway
Duty of Government and Parliament of Canada to make Railway herein described.
145 Inasmuch as the Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick have joined in a Declaration that the Construction of the Intercolonial Railway is essential to the Consolidation of the Union of British North America, and to the Assent thereto of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, and have consequently agreed that Provision should be made for its immediate Construction by the Government of Canada: Therefore, in order to give effect to that Agreement, it shall be the Duty of the Government and Parliament of Canada to provide for the Commencement, within Six Months after the Union, of a Railway connecting the River St. Lawrence with the City of Halifax in Nova Scotia, and for the Construction thereof without Intermission, and the Completion thereof with all practicable Speed.

XI. Admission op other Colonies
Power to admit Newfoundland, &c. into the Union.
146 It shall be lawful for the Queen, by and with the Advice of Her Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council, on Addresses from the Houses of the Parliament of Canada, and from the Houses of the respective Legislatures of the Colonies or Provinces of Newfoundland, Prince Edward Island, and British Columbia, to admit those Colonies or Provinces, or any of them, into the Union, and on Address from the Houses of the Parliament of Canada to admit Rupert's Land and the North-western Territory, or either of them, into the Union, on such Terms and Conditions in each Case as are in the Addresses expressed and as the Queen thinks fit to approve, subject to the Provisions of this Act; and the Provisions of any Order in Council in that Behalf shall have effect as if they had been enacted by the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.

As to Representation of Newfoundland and Prince Edward Island in Senate.
147 In case of the Admission of Newfoundland and Prince Edward Island, or either of them, each shall be entitled to a Representation in the Senate of Canada of Four Members, and (notwithstanding anything in this Act) in case of the Admission of Newfoundland the normal Number of Senators shall be Seventy-six and their maximum Number shall be Eighty-two; but Prince Edward Island when admitted shall be deemed to be comprised in the third of the Three Divisions into which Canada is, in relation to the Constitution of the Senate, divided by this Act, and accordingly, after the Admission of Prince Edward Island, whether Newfoundland is admitted or not, the Representation of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick in the Senate shall, as Vacancies occur, be reduced from Twelve to Ten Members respectively, and the Representation of each of those Provinces shall not be increased at any Time beyond Ten, except under the Provisions of this Act for the Appointment of Three or Six additional Senators under the Direction of the Queen.

THE FIRST SCHEDULE
Electoral Districts of Ontario
A. Existing Electoral Divisions Counties.
1 Prescott.

2 Glengarry.

3 Stormont.

4 Dundas.

5 Russell.

6 Carleton.

7 Prince Edward.

8 Halton.

9 Essex. Ridings of Counties.

10 North Riding of Lanark.

11 South Riding of Lanark.

12 North Riding of Leeds and North Riding of Grenville.

13 South Riding of Leeds. 14 South Riding of Grenville.

15 East Riding of Northumberland.

16 West Riding of Northumberland (excepting therefrom the Township of South Monaghan).

17 East Riding of Durham.

18 West Riding of Durham.

19 North Riding of Ontario.

20 South Riding of Ontario.

21 East Riding of York.

22 West Riding of York.

23 North Riding of York.

24 North Riding of Wentworth.

25 South Riding of Wentworth.

26 East Riding of Elgin.

27 West Riding of Elgin.

28 North Riding of Waterloo.

29 South Riding of Waterloo.

30 North Riding of Brant.

31 South Riding of Brant.

32 North Riding of Oxford.

33 South Riding of Oxford.

34 East Riding of Middlesex. Cities, Parts of Cities, and Towns.

35 West Toronto.

36 East Toronto.

37 Hamilton.

38 Ottawa.

39 Kingston.

40 London.

41 Town of Brockville, with the Township of Elizabethtown thereto attached.

42 Town of Niagara, with the Township of Niagara thereto attached.

43 Town of Cornwall, with the Township of Cornwall thereto attached.

B. New Electoral Divisions
44 The Provisional Judicial District of Algoma.

The County of Bruce, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the North and South Ridings: 
45 The North Riding of Bruce to consist of the Townships of Bury, Lindsay, Eastnor, Albemarle, Amabel, Arran, Bruce, Elderslie, and Langeen, and the Village of Southampton.

46 The South Riding of Bruce to consist of the Townships of Kincardine (including the Village of Kincardine), Greenock, Brant, Huron, Kinross, Culross, and Carrick.

The County of Huron, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the North and South Ridings: 
47 The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Ashfield, Wawa nosh, Turnberry, Howick, Morris, Grey, Colborne, Hullett, including Village of Clinton, and McKillop.

48 The South Riding to consist of the Town of Goderich and the Town ships of Goderich, Tuckersmith, Stanley, Hay, Usborne, and Stephen,

The County of Middlesex, divided into Ridings, to be called, respectively the North, West, and East Ridings : 
49 The North Riding to consist of the Townships of McGillivray and Biddulph (taken from the County of Huron), and Williams East, Williams West, Adelaide, and Lobo.

50 The West Riding to consist of the Townships of Delaware, Carradoc, Metcalfe, Mosa, and Ekfrid, and the Village of Strathroy. [The East Riding to consist of the Townships now embraced therein, and be bounded as it is at present.]

51 The County of Lambton to consist of the Townships of Bosanquet, Warwick, Plympton, Sarnia, Moore, Enniskillen, and Brooke, and the Town of Sarnia.

52 The County of Kent to consist of the Townships of Chatham, Dover, East Tilbury, Romney, Raleigh, and Harwich, and the Town of Chatham.

53 The County of Bothwell to consist of the Townships of Sombra, Dawn, and Euphemia (taken from the County of Lambton), and the Townships of Zone, Camden with the Gore thereof, Orford, and Howard (taken from the County of Kent).

The County of Grey, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the South and North Ridings : 
54 The South Riding to consist of the Townships of Bentinck, Glenelg, Artemesia, Osprey, Normanby, Egremont, Proton, and Melancthon.

55 The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Collingwood, Euphrasia, Holland, Saint-Vincent, Sydenham, Sullivan, Derby, and Keppel, Sarawak and Brooke, and the Town of Owen Sound.

The County of Perth, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the South and North Ridings : 
56 The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Wallace; Elma, Logan, Ellice, Mornington, and North Easthope, and the ,Town of Stratford.

57 The South Riding to consist of the Townships of Blanchard, Dowme, South Easthope, Fullartou, Hibbert, and the Villages of Mitchell and Ste. Marys.

The County of Wellington, divided into Three Ridings, to be called respectively North, South, and Centre Ridings: 
58 The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Amaranth, Arthur, Luther, Minto, Maryborough, Peel, and the Village of Mount Forest.

59 The Centre Riding to consist of the Townships of Garafraxa, Erin, Eramosa, Nichol, and Pilkington, and the Villages of Fergus and Elora.

60 The South Riding to consist of the Town of Guelph, and the Town ships of Guelph and Puslinch.

The County of Norfolk, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the South and North Ridings : 
61 The South Riding to consist of the Townships of Charlotteville, Houghton, Walsingham, and Woodhouse, and with the Gore thereof.

62 The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Middleton, Townsend, and Windham, and the Town of Simcoe.

63 The County of Haldimand to consist of the Townships of Oneida, Seneca, Caguya North, Caguya South, Raynham, Walpole, and Dunn.

64 The County of Monck to consist of the Townships of Canborough and Moulton, and Sherbrooke, and the Village of Dunville (taken from the County of Haldimand), the Townships of Caistor and Gainsborough (taken from the County of Lincoln), and the Townships of Pelham and Wainfleet (taken from the County of Welland).

65 The County of Lincoln to consist of the Townships of Clinton, Grantham, Grimsby, and Louth, and the Town of St. Catherines.

66 The County of Welland to consist of the Townships of Bertie, Crowland, Humberstone, Stamford, Thorold, and Willoughby, and the Villages of Chippewa, Clifton, Fort Erie, Thorold, and Welland.

67 The County of Peel to consist of the Townships of Chinguacousy, Toronto, and the Gore of Toronto, and the Villages of Brampton and Streetsville.

68 The County of Cardwell to consist of the Townships of Albion and Caledon (taken from the County of Peel), and the Townships of Adjala and Mono (taken from the County of Simcoe).

The County of Simcoe, divided into Two Ridings; to be called respectively the South and the North Ridings : 
69 The South Riding to consist of the Townships of West Gwillimbury, Tecumseth, Innisfil, Essa, Tosorontio, Mulmur, and the Village of Bradford.

70 The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Nottawasaga, Sunnidale, Vespra, Flos, Oro, Medonte, Orillia and Matchedash, Tiny and Tay, Balaklava and Robinson, and the Towns of Barrie and Collingwood.

The County of Victoria, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the South and North Ridings : 
71 The South Riding to consist of the Townships of Ops, Mariposa, Emily, Verulam, and the Town of Lindsay.

72 The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Anson, Bexley, Carden, Dalton, Digby, Eldon, Fenelon, Hindon, Laxton, Lutterworth, Macaulay and. Draper, Sommerville, and Morrison, Muskoka, Monck and Watt (taken from the County of Simooe), and any other surveyed Townships lying to the North of the said North Riding.

The County of Peterborough, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the West and East Ridings : 
73 The West Riding to consist of the Townships of South Monaghan (taken from the County of Northumberland), North Monaghan, Smith, and Ennismore, and the Town of Peterborough.

74 The East Riding to consist of the Townships of Asphodel, Belmont and Methuen, Douro, Dummer, Galway, Harvey, Minden, Stanhope and Dysart, Otonabee, and Snowden, and the Village of Ashburn-ham, and any other surveyed Townships lying to the North of the said East Riding.

The County of Hastings, divided into Three Ridings, to be called respectively the West, East, and North Ridings: 
75 The West Riding to consist of the Town of Belleville, the Township of Sydney, and the Village of Trenton.

76 The East Riding to consist of the Townships of Thurlow, Tyendinaga, and Hungerford.

77 The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Rawdon, Huntingdon, Madoc, Elzevir, Tudor, Marmora, and Lake, and the Village of Stirling, and any other surveyed Townships lying to the North of the said North Riding.

78 The County of Lennox to consist of the Townships of Richmond, Adolphustown, North Fredericksburg, South Fredericksburg, Ernest Town, and Amherst Island, and the Village of Napanee.

79 The County of Addington to consist of the Townships of Camden, Portland, Sheffield, Hinchinbroke, Kaladar, Kennebec, Olden, Oso, Anglesea, Barrie, Clarendon, Palmerston, Effingham, Abinger, Miller, Canonto, Denbigh, Loughborough, and Bedford.

80 The County of Frontenac to consist of the Townships of Kingston, Wolfe Island, Pittsburg and Howe Island, and Storrington.

The County of Renfrew, divided into Two Ridings, to be called respectively the South and North Ridings : 
81 The South Riding to consist of the Townships of McNab, Bagot, Blithfield, Brougham, Horton, Admaston, Grattan, Matawatchan, Griffith, Lyndoch, Raglan, Radcliffe, Brudenell, Sebastopol, and the Villages of Arnprior and Renfrew.

82 The North Riding to consist of the Townships of Ross, Bromley, Westmeath, Stafford, Pembroke, Wilberforce, Alice, Petawawa, Buchanan, South Algona, North Algona, Fraser, McKay, Wylie, Rolph, Head, Maria, Clara, Haggerty, Sherwood, Burns, and Richards, and any other surveyed Townships lying North-westerly of the said North Riding.

Every Town and incorporated Village existing at the Union, not specially mentioned in this Schedule, is to be taken as Part of the County or Riding within which it is locally situate.
THE SECOND SCHEDULE
Electoral Districts of Quebec specially fixed
Counties of 

Pontiac.	Missisquoi.	Compton.
Ottawa.	Brome.	Wolfe and Richmond.
Argenteuil.	Shefford.	Megantic.
Huntingdon.	Stanstead.	
Town of Sherbrooke.

THE THIRD SCHEDULE
Provincial Public Works and Property to be the Property of Canada
1 Canals, with Lands and Water Power connected therewith.

2 Public Harbours.

3 Lighthouses and Piers, and Sable Island.

4 Steamboats, Dredges, and public Vessels.

5 Rivers and Lake Improvements.

6 Railways and Railway Stocks, Mortgages, and other Debts due by Railway Companies.

7 Military Roads.

8 Custom Houses, Post Offices, and all other Public Buildings, except such as the Government of Canada appropriate for the Use of the Provincial Legislatures and Governments.

9 Property transferrer, by the Imperial Government, and known as Ordnance Property.

10 Armouries, Drill Sheds, Military Clothing, and Munitions of War, and Lands set apart for general Public Purposes.

THE FOURTH SCHEDULE
Assets to be the Property of Ontario and Quebec conjointly
Upper Canada Building Fund.	
lunatic Asylums.	
Normal School.	
Court Houses in	Lower Canada.
Aylmer,
Montreal,
Kamouraska,
Law Society, Upper Canada.	
Montreal Turnpike Trust.	
University-Permanent Fund.	
Royal Institution.	
Consolidated Municipal Loan Fund, Upper Canada.	
Consolidated Municipal Loan Fund, Lower Canada.	
Agricultural Society, Upper Canada.	
Lower Canada Legislative Grant.	
Quebec Fire Loan.	
Tamisconata Advance Account.	
Quebec Turnpike Trust.	
Education East.	
Building and Jury Fund, Lower Canada.	
Municipalities Fund.	
Lower Canada Superior Education Income Fund.	
THE FIFTH SCHEDULE
Oath of Allegiance
I A.B. do swear, That I will be faithful and bear true Allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria. Note. The Name of the King or Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland for the Time being is to be substituted from Time to Time, with proper Terms of Reference thereto. Declaration of Qualification I A.B. do declare and testify, That I am by Law duly qualified to be appointed a Member of the Senate of Canada [or as the Case may be], and that I am legally or equitably seised as of Freehold for my own Use and Benefit of Lands or Tenements held in Free and Common Socage [or seised or possessed for my own Use and Benefit of Lands or Tenements held in Franc-alleu or in Roture (as the Case may be),] in the Province of Nova Scotia [or as the Case may be] of the Value of Four thousand Dollars over and above all Rents, Dues, Debts, Mortgages, Charges, and Incumbrances due or payable out of or charged on or affecting the same, and that I have not collusively or colourably obtained a Title to or become possessed of the said Lands and Tenements or any Part thereof for the Purpose of enabling me to become a Member of the Senate of Canada [or as the Case may be], and that my Real and Personal Property are together worth Four thousand Dollars over and above my Debts and Liabilities.
