VII.


The Union Government.


114. The Union Government shall consist of the Prime Minister and other members appointed under section 56.
115. The Government shall be collectively responsible to the Chamber of Deputies. 
116. A member of the Government who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of the Parliament shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a member of the Government.
117. (1) The Prime Minister may resign from office at any time by placing his resignation in the hands of the President.
(2) Any other member of the Government may resign from office by placing his resignation in the hands of the Prime Minister for submission to the President and the resignation shall take effect upon its being accepted by the President under the next succeeding sub-section.	
(3) The President shall accept the resignation of a member of the Government, other than the Prime Minister, if so advised by the Prime Minister.
118. The Prime Minister may, at any time, for reasons which to him seem sufficient request a member of the Government to resign; should the member concerned fail to comply with the request, his appointment shall be terminated by the President if the Prime Minister so advises.
119. The Prime Minister shall resign from office upon his ceasing to retain the support of a majority in the Chamber of Deputies unless on his advice the President dissolves the Parliament under section 57 and on the re-assembly of the Parliament after the dissolution the Prime Minister secures the support of a majority in the Chamber of Deputies. [check]
120. (1) If the Prime Minister at any time resigns from office, the other members of the Government shall be deemed also to have resigned from office, but the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government shall continue to carry on their duties until their successors shall have been appointed.
(2) The members of the Government in office at the date of dissolution of the Parliament shall continue to hold office until their successors shall have been appointed. 
121. (1) All executive action of the Union Government shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the President.
(2) Orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the President shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to be made by the President and the validity of an order or instrument which is so authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an order or instrument made or executed by the President.
(3) The President shall make rules for the transaction of the business of the Union Government, and for the allocation among Ministers of the said business in so far as it is not business with respect to which the President is by or under this Constitution required to act in his discretion.
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions the allocation of business may be regionwise as well as subjectwise.
122. Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive authority of the Union extends - 
(a) to the matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws; and
(b) to the governance, in accordance with the provisions of any treaty ol agreement in this behalf, of any Armed Forces not raised in the Union thai may, with the consent of the Government of the Union, be stationed in the Union or placed at the disposal of the Union.
123. (1) War shall not be declared and the Union shall not participate in any war save an~ except with the assent of the Parliament.
(2) In case of actual or imminent invasion, however, [the] Government may tak( whatever steps they may consider [necessary] for the protection of the Union, and the Parliament if not sitting [...]be summoned to meet at the earliest possible date.
124. The Prime Minister shall keep the President [generally] informed on all matters of domestic and international policy.
125. (1) The Government shall prepare estimates of receipts [...] estimates of expenditure of the Union for each financial year, [...] shall present them to the Chamber of Deputies for consideration.
(2) The procedure to be adopted in the Chambers of [Parliament] with respect to the submission of estimates of expenditure [...] appropriation of the revenues of the Union and all matters [connected] therewith shall, in so far as provision is not made in that [behalf...] this Constitution, be regulated in accordance with law.


ATTORNEY-GENERAL.


126. (1) The President shall appoint a person, being an [advocate] of the High Court, to be Attorney-General on the nomination [of...] Prime Minister.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Attorney-General to give a [...]to the Government upoi legal matters and to perform such [...]duties of a legal character, as may, from time t( time, beassigned [to] him by the President.
127. (1) The Attorney-General may, at any time, resign [...]office by placing hi; resignation in the hands of the Prime Minister for submission to the President.
(2) The Prime Minister may, for reasons which to him [...] sufficient, request thi resignation of the Attorney-General.
(3) In the event of failure to comply with the request [the] appointment of the Attorney General shall be terminated by [the] President if the Prime Minister so advises.
(4) The Attorney-General shall resign from office upon [the] resignation of the Prim Minister, but may continue to carry [out ...] duties until the successor to the Prime Minister shall have [been] appointed.
(5) Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Constitution, the office of the Attorney General, including the remuneration to be paid to the holder of the office, shall b regulated by law. 


AUDITOR-GENERAL


128. There shall be an Auditor-General to control on behalf of the Union all disbursements and to audit all accounts of monies administered by and under the authority of the Parliament and the State Councils.
129. The Auditor-General shall be appointed by the President withthe approval of both Chambers of Parliament and shall only be removed from office in the like manner and on the like grounds as a judge of the High Court.
The Auditor-General shall not be a member of either Chamber of Parliament nor shall he hold any other office or position of emolument. He shall not be eligible for further office in the service of the Union or the States after he has ceased to hold office.
130. Neither the salary of the Auditor-General nor his rights in respect of leave of absence or pension shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment, unless he voluntarily agrees to any reduction in his salary in the event of general economy and retrenchment in relation to all the services of the Union.
131. The Auditor-General shall submit to the Chamber of Deputies, at such periods as may be determined by law, reports relating to the accounts of the Union and the States.
132. Subject to the foregoing provisions, the terms and conditions of the office of the Auditor-General shall be determined by law.
