VI


Parliament


Part I. - General


65. The legislative powr of the Union shall be vested in the Parliament which shall consist of the President, a Chamber of Deputies and a Chamber of Nationalities and which is in this Constitution called "the Parliament" or "the Union Parliament". 
66. There shall be a session of the Parliament once at least in every year so that twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting of the Parliament in one session and its first sitting in the next session.
67. (1) The Chamber of Deputies shall, as soon as may be, choosetwo members of the Chamber to be respectively the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker thereof, and, so often as the Office of the Speaker or Deputy Speaker becomes vacant, the Chamber shallchoose another member to be Speaker or Deputy Speaker, as the case may be.
(2) A member holding office as Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the Chamber shall vacate his office if he ceases to be a member of the Chmaber, may at any time resign his office by writing under his hand addressed to the President, and may be removed from his office by a resolution of the Chamber passed by a majority of the then members of the Chamber; but no resolution for the purpose of this sub-section shall be moved unless at least fourteen days' notice has been given of the intention to move the resolution:
Provided that, whenever the Chamber is dissolved, the Speaker shall not vacate his office until immediately before the first meeting of the Chamber after the dissolution.
(3) While the office of the Speaker is vacant the duties of his office shall be performed by the Deputy Speaker or, if the office of the Deputy Speaker is also vacant, by such member of the Chamber as the President may appoint for the purpose, and during the absence of the Speaker from any sitting of the Chamber the Deputy Speaker or, if he is also absent, such person as may be determined by the rules of procedure of the Chamber, or if no such person is present, such other person as may be determined by the Chamber, shall act as the Speaker.
(4)There shall be paid to the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker of the Chamber such salaries as may be respectively determined by an Act of the Parliament.
(5) The foregoing provisions of this section shall apply in relation to the Chamber of Nationalities as they apply in relation to the Chamber of Deputies with the substitution of references to the Chamber of Nationalities for references to the Chamber of Deputies.
68. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution and to the rules and standing orders regulating the procedure of the Parliament, there shall be freedom of speech in the Parliament, and no member of the Parliament shall be liable to any proceedings in any Court in respect of anything said or any vote given by him in the Parliament or any Committee thereof, and no person shall be so liable in respect of publication by or under the authority of a Chamber of the Parliament of any report, paper, votes, or proceedings.
(2) In other respects, the privileges of members of either Chamber of Parliament shall be such as may, from time to time, be defined by an Act of the Parliament and, until so defined, shall be such as were immediately before the commencement of this Constitution enioyed by members of the legislature of Burma. 
69. (1) All questions at any sitting or joint sitting of the Chambers shall, save as otherwise provided by this Constitution, be determined by a majority of votes of the members present and voting, other than the Speaker or person acting as such, who shall not vote in the first instance, but shall have and exercise a casting vote in the case of an equality of votes.
(2) The number of members necessary to constitute the quorum of either Chamber for the exercise of its powers shall be determined by its rules.
(3) A Chamber of Parliament shall have power to act notwithstanding any vacancy in the membership thereof, and any proceedings in the Parliament shall be valid notwithstanding that it is discovered subsequently that some person who was not entitled to do so sat or voted or otherwise took part in the proceedings.
(4) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, the Chamber of Nationalities shall have power to act notwithstanding the failure of any unit to provide for its representation in the Chamber.
70. All official reports and publications of the Parliament or of either Chamber thereof shall be absolutely privileged.
71. The Parliament may make provision by law for the payment of salaries and allowances to the members of each Chamber in respect of their duties as public representatives and for the grant to them of such travelling and other facilities in connection with their duties as the Parliament may determine.
72. Every member of either Chamber of Parliament shall before taking his seat make and subscribe before the President, or some person authorized by him, an oath or affirmation of allegiance in the form set forth in the First Schedule to this Constitution.
73. (1) No person may at the same time be a member of both Chambers of Parliament, and, if any person who is already a member of either Chamber becomes a member of the other Chamber, he shall forthwith be deemed to have vacated his first seat.
(2) If a member of either Chamber 
(a) becomes subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in
sub-section (1) of the next succeeding section; or 
(b) by writing under his hand addressed to the President resigns his seat, his seat shall thereupon become vacant.
(3) If for a period of thirty days a member of either Chamber is without permission of the Chamber absent from all meetingsthereof, the Chamber may declare his seat vacant: 
Provided that in computing the said period of thirty days no account shall be taken of any period during which the Chamber is prorogued, or is adjourned for more than four consecutive days.
74. (1) Any person who 
(i) is under any acknowledgment of allegiance or adherence to a foreign Power, or is a subject or citizen or entitled to the rights and privileges of a subject or a citizen of a foreign Power; or
(ii) is an undischarged bankrupt or insolvent; or
(iii) is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent Court; or
(iv) holds any office of profit in the service of the Union or of any unit other than an office declared by an Act of the Parliament not to disqualify its holder; or
(v) whether before or after the commencement of this Constitution, has been convicted or has, in proceedings for questioning the validity or regularity of an election, been found to have been guilty of an offense or corrupt or illegal practice relating to elections which has been declared by an Act of the legislature of Burma or of the Parliament to be an offense or practice entailing disqualification for membership of the legislature or of the Parliament, unless such period has elapsed as may be specified in that behalf in the provisions of that Act; or 
(vi) whether before or after the commencement of this Constitution, has been convicted, in any of the territories included within the Union, of any other offense, and has, in either case, been sentenced to transportation or to lmpflsonment for not less than two years, unless a period of five years or such less period as the President may, in his discretion, allow in any particular case, has elapsed since his release; or 
(vii) having been nominated as a candidate for the Parliament or having acted as an election agent of any person so nominated, has failed to lodge a return of the election expenses within the time and in the manner required by any Order made under this Constitution or by any Act of the Parliament, unless five years have elapsed from the date by which the return ought to have been lodged, or the President, in his discretion, has removed the disqualification; hall be disqualified for being chosen as and for being a member of either Chamber:
Provided that a disqualification under paragraph (vii) of this sub-section shall not take effect until the expiration of one month from the date by which the return ought to have been lodged, or of such longer period as the President acting in his discretion may, in any particular case, allow. 
(2) A person shall not be qualified for being chosen a member of either Chamber while he is serving a sentence of transportation or of imprisonment for a criminal offense: 
Provided that, where the sentence does not exceed two years, the President may in his discretion remove such disqualification.
(3) Where a person who, by virtue of a conviction or a conviction and a sentence, becomes disqualified by virtue of paragraph (v) or paragraph (vi) of sub-section (1) of this section is at the date of the disqualification a member of a Chamber, his seat shall, notwithstanding anything in this or the last preceding section, not become vacant by reason of the disqualification until three months have elapsed from the date thereof, or, if within those three months an appeal or petition for revision is brought in respect of the conviction or the sentence, until that appeal or petition is disposed of, but, during any period wherein his membership is preserved by this sub-section, he shall not sit or vote.
75. If a person sits or votes as a member of either Chamber when he is not qualified or is disqualified for membership thereof, or when he is prohibited from so doing by the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 74 or before he has complied with the requirements of section 72 he shall be liable in respect of each day on which he so sits or votes to a penalty of rupees one thousand to be recovered as a debt due to the Union Government.
76. (1) Every citizen, who has completed the age of twenty-one years and who is no~ placed under any disability or incapacity by this Constitution or by law, shall be eligible foi membership of the Parliament.
(2) Every citizen, who has completed the age of eighteen years and who is no disqualified by law and complies with the provisions of the law regulating elections to thc Parliament, shall have the right to vote at any election to the Parliament.
(3) There shall be no property qualification for membership of the Parliament or for th~ right to vote at elections to the Parliament.
(4) No law shall be enacted or continued placing any citizen under disability or incapacit) for membership of the Parliament on the ground of sex, race or religion or disqualifyin any citizen from voting at elections to the Parliament on any such ground:
Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in section 21(3), members of an~ religious order may by law be debarred from voting at any such elections or from being c' member of either Chamber of Parliament.
(5) Voting shall be by secret ballot.
77. Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, all matters relating to elections 10 either Chamber of Parliament including the delimitation of constituencies, the filling of casual vacancies, and the decision of doubts and disputes arising out of or in connectior with such elections shall be regulated in accordance with law.
78. The Parliament may by law prescribe the conditions under and the manner in which member of either Chamber of Parliament may be recalled.
79. Every member of the Union Government and the Attorney-General shall have th~ right to speak in, and otherwise take part in the proceedings of, either Chamber, any join sitting of the Chambers and any Committee of the Parliament of which he may be named member, but he shall not by virtue of this section be entitled to vote.
80. (1) Each Chamber of the Parliament may make rules for regulating, subject to the provisions of this Constitution, its procedure and the conduct of its business.
(2) The President, after consultation with the Speaker of the Chamber of Nationalities and the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies, may make rules as to the procedure with respect to joint sittings of, and communications between, the two Chambers. 
(3) At a joint sitting of the two Chambers the Speaker of the Chamber of Nationalities, or in his absence the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies or such person as may be determined by rules of procedure made under this section, shall preside. 
81. No discussion shall take place in the Parliament with respect to the conduct of any judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court in the discharge of his duties, except upon a resolution for the removal of the judge as provided in this Constitution.
82. (1) The validity of an proceedings in the Parliament shall not be called in question in any Court on the ground oany irregularity of procedure.
(2) The Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies or the Speaker of the Chamber of Nationalities or any other member of either Chamber of Parliament in whom powers are vested by or under this Constitution for regulating procedure or the conduct of business or for maintaining order in the Chamber shall not be subject to the jurisdiction of any Court in respect of the exercise by him of those powers.


PART II. - CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES


83. (1) The Chamber of Deputies shall be composed of members who represent constituencies determined by law.
[1. Deleted by Act LXII, 1951]
(2) The number of members of this Chamber shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of members of the Chamber of Nationalities.
The number of members shall from time to time be fixed by law but the total number of the members of the Chamber of Deputies shall not be fixed at less than one member for each 100,000 of the population, or at more than one member for each 30,000 of the population. 
(3) The ratio between the number of members to be elected at any time for a constituency and the population of that constituency, as ascertained at the last preceding census, shall, so far as practicable, be the same for all constituencies throughout the Union, except in the case of the constituencies of the Special Division of the Chins (referred to in Part V of Chapter IX) and the Kayah State, in respect of which the ratio may be higher. 
(4) The Parliament shall revise the constituencies at least once in every ten years, with due regard to changes in the distribution of the population, but any alteration in the constituencies shall not take effect until the termination of the then existing Parliament.
84. (1) The general election for members of the Chamber of Deputies shall take place not later than sixty days after the dissolution of the Chamber.
Polling at every general election shall, as far as practicable, take place on the same day throughout the Union.
(2) The Chamber of Deputies shall meet within sixty days from the polling day.
85. Every Chamber of Deputies shall continue for four years from the first meeting of the Chamber:
Provided that the Chambers of Parliament may by resolution passed by not less than tw~o thirds of the members present and voting at a joint sitting extend the said period from year to year in the event of a grave emergency declared by Proclamation under section 94:
Provided further that the Chamber of Deputies may be dissolved by the President at any time as provided by section 57.
86. (1) As soon as possible after the presentation to the Chamber of Deputies under Chapter VII of the estimates of receipts and estimates of expenditure of the Union for any financial year, the Chamber shall consider the estimates.
(2) Save in so far as may be provided by specific enactment in each case, the legislation required to give effect to the financial resolutions of each year shall be enacted within that year.
(3) The Chamber of Deputies shall not pass any vote or resolution, and no law shall be enacted, for the appropriation of revenue or other public monies, unless the purpose of the appropnation shall have been recommended to the Chamber by the Union Government.


PART III. - CHAMBER OF NATIONALITIES


87. There shall be one hundred and twenty-five seats in the Chamber of Nationalities as allocated in the Second Schedule to this Constitution.
88. (1) A dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies shall operate also as a dissolution of the Chamber of Nationalities.
(2) The general election for the Chamber of Nationalities shall be completed not later than the fifteenth day from the first meeting of the Chamber of Deputies held after the dissolution.
89. The first meeting of the Chamber of Nationalities after the general election shall take place on a date to be fixed by the President on the advice of the Prime Minister.


PART IV. - POWER OF THE PARLIAMENT


90. Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the sole and exclusive power of making laws in the Union shall be vested in the Parliament:
Provided that an Act of the Parliament may authorize any person or authority therein specified to make rules and regulations consonant with the Act and having the force of law, subject, however, to such rules and regulations being laid before each Chamber of Parliament at its next ensuing session and subject to annulment by a motion carried in both Chambers within a period of three months of their being so laid, without prejudice, however, to the validity of any action previously taken under the rules or regulations.
91. Provision may, however, be made by law on principles ofregional autonomy for delegating to representative bodies of such regions as may be defined in the law, specified powers in administrative, cultural and economic matters.
A law embodying such provisions shall determine the rights, powers and duties of such representative bodies and their relations to the Parliament and to the Union Government.
92. (1) The Parliament shall have power to make laws for the whole or any part of the Union except in so far as such power is assigned by the next succeeding sub-section exclusively to the State Councils.
For greater certainty, but not so as to restrict the generality of the foregoing terms of this section, it is hereby declared that, notwithstanding anything in the next succeeding subsection, the exclusive legislative authority of the Parliament shall extend to all matters enumerated in List I of the Third Schedule to this Constitution (hereinafter called "the Union Legislative List").
Any matter coming within any of the classes of subjects enumerated in the said List, shall not be deemed to come within the class of matters of a local or private nature comprised in the list of subjects assigned by the next succeeding sub-section exclusively to the State Councils.
(2) Each State Council shall have power exclusively to make laws for the State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II of the said Schedule (hereinafter called "the State Legislative List").
(3) Any State Council may by resolution surrender any of itsterritories or any of its powers and rights to the Union.
93. The powers exercisable by the Union by reason of the entry in the Union Legislative List relating to the regulation of forests, mines and oil-fields and mineral development, shall be subject to the condition that before the issue of any certificate, licence, or other form of authorization, for the exploitation, development or utilization of any forest, mine or oil-field, the issuing authority shall consult the Union Minister for the State concerned.
94. (1) Notwithstanding anything in section 92, the Parliament shall, if the President has declared by Proclamation (in this Constitution referred to as a "Proclamation of Emergency"), that a grave emergency exists whereby the security of the Union is threatened, whether by war or internal disturbance, or that a grave economic emergency affecting the Union has arisen in any part of the Union, have power to make laws for a State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State Legislative List.
(2) Nothing in this section shall restrict the power of a State Council to make any law which under this Constitution it has power to make, but if any provision of a State law is repugnant to any provision of a Union law which the Parliament has under this section power to make, the Union law, whether passed before or after the State law, shall prevail, and the State law shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, but so long only as the Union law continues to have effect, be inoperative. 
(3) A Proclamation of Emergency 
(a) may be revoked by a subsequent Proclamation, and
(b) shall cease to operate at the expiration of six months, unless before the expiration of that period it has been approved by resolutions of both Chambers of Parliament: 
Provided that, if and so often as a resolution approving the continuance in force of such a Proclamation is passed by both Chambers of Parliament, the Proclamation shall, unless revoked, continue in force for a further period of twelve months from the date on which under this sub-section it would otherwise have ceased to operate. 
(4) A law made by the Parliament which it would not but for the issue of a Proclamation of Emergency have been competent to make shall cease to have effect on the expiration of a period of six months after the Proclamation has ceased to operate, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the expiration of the said period. 
95. If it appears to the State Councils of two or more States to be desirable that any of the matters enumerated in the State Legislative List should be regulated in these States by an Act of the Parliament, and if resolutions to that effect are passed by those State Councils, it shall be lawful for the Parliament to pass an Act for regulating that matter accordingly; but any Act so passed may, as respects any State to which it applies, be amended or repeele by an Act of the State Council.
96. (1) All revenues from the sources enumerated in the Fourth Schedule to this Constitution shall form part of the revenues of the State in or by which they are raised received. 
(2) All revenues other than such as are assigned to the States by the last preceding subsection shall form part of the revenues of the Union:
Provided that the Union may make such grants or contributions out of its revenues in aid of the revenues of the units as it may determine to be necessary upon the recommendation of any Board or other authority appointed for the purpose.	
97. (1) The right to raise and maintain military, naval and air forces is vested exclusively in the Parliament. 
(2) No military, naval or air forces, or any military or semi-military organization of an kind (not being a police force maintained under the authority of any unit solely for dutic connected with the maintenance of public order) other than the forces raised and maintaine by the Union with the consent of the Parliament shall be raised or maintained for an purpose whatsoever.


PART V. - LEGISLATION


98. Every Bill initiated in and passed by the Chamber of Deputiesshall be sent to th Chamber of Nationalities and may, unless it be a Money Bill, be amended in the Chambc of Nationalities and sent back to the Chamber of Deputies for its consideration. 
99. Every Bill, other than a Money Bill, may be initiated in the Chamber of Nationaliti~ and if passed by the Chamber, shall be sent to the Chamber of Deputies which may amen the Bill and send it back to the Chamber of Nationalities for its consideraflon.
100. A Bill passed by one Chamber and accepted by the otherChamber shall be deeme to have been passed by both Chambers of Parliament.
101. A Bill which appropriates revenue or money for the ordinary annual services of th Government shall deal only with such appropriations.
102. Bills imposing taxation shall deal only with imposition of taxation and any provisio therein dealing with any other matter shall be of no effect.


MONEY BILLS

103. Money Bills shall be initiated in the Chamber of Deputies only. 
104. Every Money Bill passed by the Chamber of Deputies shall be sent to the Chambe of Nationalities for its recommendations.
105. (1) Every Money Bill sent to the Chamber of Nationalities for its recommendation shall, within twenty-one days after it shall have been sent to the Chamber of Nationalities be returned to the Chamber of Deputies which may accept or reject all or any of thi recommendations of the Chamber of Nationalities.
(2) If such a Money Bill is not returned by the Chamber of Nationalities to the Chamber of Deputies within twenty-one days or is returned within twenty-one days with recommendations which the Chamber of Deputiesdoes not accept, it shall be deemed to have been passed by both Chambers at the expiration of twenty-one days.
106. (1) A Money Bill means a Bill which contains only provisions dealing with all or any of the following matters, namely, the imposition, repeal, remission, alteration or regulation of taxation; the imposition, for the repayment of debt or other financial purposes, of charges on the revenues of the Union or the variation or repeal of any such charges; supply; the appropriation, receipt, custody, issue or audit of accounts of public money; the raising or guaranteeing of any loan or the repayment thereof; matters subordinate and incidental to these matters or any of them.
(2) In this definition the expressions "taxation", "revenues of the Union" and "loan", respectively, do not include any taxation, money or loan raised by local authorities or bodies for local purposes.
107. (1) The Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies shall certify any Bill which in his opinion is a Money Bill to be "a Money Bill" and his certificate shall, subject to the subsequent provisions of this section, be final and conclusive.
(2) The Chamber of Nationalities may, by a resolution passed at a sitting at which not less than two-thirds of the total members are present, request the President to refer the question whether the Bill is or is not "a Money Bill" to a Committee of Privileges.
(3) If the President in his discretion decides to accede to the request, he shall appoint a Committee of Privileges consisting of an equal number of members of the Chamber of Deputies and of the Chamber of Nationalities and a Chairman who shall be a judge of the Supreme Court.
In the case of an equality of votes but not otherwise the Chairman shall be entifled to vote.
(4) The President shall refer the question to the Committee of Privileges so appointed and the Committee shall report its fmding thereon to the President within twenty-one days after the day on which the Bill was sent to the Chamber of Nationalities.
(5) The decision of the President, in his discretion, on such report shall be final.
108. If the President, in his discretion, decides not to accede to the request of the Chamber of Nationalities or if the Committee of Privileges fails to report within the time hereinbefore specified, the certificate of the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies shall stand confirmed. 
109. If one Chamber passes any other Bill, and the other Chamber rejects or fails to pass it, or passes it with amendments to which the Chamber where the Bill originated will not agree, the President shall convene a joint sitting of the two Chambers. 
The members present at the joint sitting may deliberate and shall vote together upon the Bill as last passed by the Chamber where the Bill originated and upon amendments, if any, which have been made therein by the other Chamber, and if the Bill with the amendments, if any, is passed by a majority of the total number of members of both Chambers present and voting, it shall be deemed to have been passed by both Chambers:
Provided that at a joint sitting 
(a) if the Bill, having been passed by one Chamber is rejected by the other Chamber and returned to the Chamber in which it originated, no amendment shall be proposed to the Bill other than such amendments, if any, as are made necessary by the delay in the passage of the Bill; 
(b) if the Bill is, however, passed by the other Chamber with amendments an returned to the Chamber in which it originated, only such amendments a aforesaid and such other amendments as are relevant to the matters wit respect to which the Chambers have not agreed, shall be proposed to th Bill; and the decision of the person presiding as to the amendments which are admissible unde this section shall be final. 
110. (1) If at any time when both Chambers of Parliament are not in session, th President is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to tak immediate action, he may promulgate such Ordinances as the circumstances appear to hi~ to require.
An Ordinance promulgated under this section shall have the same force an effect as an Act of the Parliament assented to by the President.
(2) Every such Ordinance shall be laid before both Chambers of Parliament within forty five days from the date of promulgation thereof, unless it shall have been withdrawn earlie by the President, and shall cease to operate at the expiration of fifteen days from the re assembly of the Chamber of Deputies or the Chamber of Nationalities, whichever is later: 
Provided that the President may, with the consent of both Chambers of Parliameni extend the Ordinance for such further period as may be deemed necessary.
(3) If the Ordinance shall have been withdrawn within forty-five days from the date of ii promulgation, it shall be laid before the Parliament in its next ensuing session.
(4) If and in so far as an Ordinance under this section makes any provision which th Parliament would not under this Constitution be competent to enact, it shall be void.


SIGNING AND PROMULGATION.


111. (1) As soon as any Bill shall have been passed by both Chambers of Parliament, shall be presented to the President for his signature and promulgation as an Act i accordance with the provisions of this section.
(2) Save as otherwise provided by this Constitution, every Bill so presented to til President shall be signed by him not later than seven days after the date of presentation.
(3) If any Bill is not signed by the President within seven days after the date ( presentation, the same shall become an Act in the like manner as if he had signed it on tt last of the said seven days.
112. (1) Every Bill signed or deemed to have been signed by the President under th Constitution shall become an Act on and from the date on which the Bill shall have bee signed or be deemed to have been signed.
(2) Every such Act shall be promulgated by the President by publication under h direction in the official gazette.
Every Act shall come into force on the date of suc promulgation unless the contrary intention is expressed.

113. The signed texts of Acts and Ordinances shall be enrolled for record in the office of the Registrar of the Supreme Court and such signed texts shall be conclusive evidence of the provisions of such Acts and Ordinances.
