V.


The President.


 45. There shall be a President of the Union hereinafter called "the President" who shall take precedence over all other persons throughout the Union and who shall exercise and perform the powers and functions conferred on the President by this Constitution and by law.
 46. The President shall be elected by both Chambers of Parliament in joint session by secret ballot. Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, election to the office of the President shall be regulated by an Act of the Parliament.
47. (1) The President shall not be a member of either Chamber of Parliament.
(2) If a member of either Chamber of Parliament be elected President, he shall be deemed to have vacated his seat in that Chamber.
(3) The President shall not hold any other office or position of emolument.
48. (1) The President shall hold office for five years from the date on which he enters upon his office, unless before the expiration of that period he resigns or dies, or is removed from office, or becomes permanently incapacitated.
(2) No person shall serve as President for more than two terms in all.
49. No person shall be eligible for election to the office of President unless he 
(i) is a citizen of the Union who was, or both of whose parents were, born in any of the territories included within the Union, and
(ii) is qualified for election to the Union Parliament.
50. The first President shall enter upon his office as soon as may be after his election, and every subsequent President shall enter upon his office on the day following the expiration of the term of office of his predecessor or as soon as may be thereafter, or in the event of his predecessor's removal from office, resignation, permanent incapacity or death, as soon as may be after his own election.
51. The President shall enter upon his office by making and subscribing publicly in the presence of both Chambers of Parliament assembled and of the judges of the Supreme Court, the following declaration: "I do solemnly and sincerely promise and declare that I will maintain the Constitution of the Union and uphold its laws, that I will fulfil my duties faithfully and conscientiously in accordance with the Constitution and the law, that I will diligently avert every injury and danger to the Union and that I will dedicate myself to the service of the Union."
52. The President shall not leave the Union during his term of office save on the advice of the Union Government.
53. The President shall summon the Parliament for the purpose of electing a new President, during the three months preceding the expiration of his term of office.
54. (1) The President may be impeached for 
(i) high treason;
(ii) violation of the Constitution; or
(iii) gross misconduct.
(2) The charge shall be preferred by either Chamber of Parliament subject to and in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(3) A proposal to either Chamber of Parliament to prefer a charge against the President under this section shall not be entertained except upon a notice of resolution in writing signed by not less than one-fourth of the total membership of that Chamber.
(4) No such proposal shall be adopted by either Chamber of Parliament save upon a resolution of that Chamber supported by not less than two-thirds of the total membership thereof.
(5) When a charge has been preferred by one Chamber of Parliament, the other Chamber shall investigate the charge or cause the charge to be investigated.
(6) The President shall have the right to appear and to be represented at the investigation of the charge.
(7) If, as the result of the investigation, a resolution be passed supported by not less than two-thirds of the total membership of the Chamber of Parliament by which the charge was investigated or caused to be investigated, declaring that the charge preferred against the President has been sustained and that the offense, the subject of the charge, was such as to render him unfit to continue in office, such resolution shall operate to remove the President from his office.
55. The President shall have an official residence and shall receive such emoluments and allowances as shall be prescribed by law. Emoluments and allowances of the President shall not be varied during his term of office.
56. (1) The President shall, on the nomination of the Chamber of Deputies, appoint a Prime Minister who shall be the head of the Union Government.
(2) The President shall, on the nomination of the Prime Minister, appoint other memhers of the Union Government.
(3) The President shall, on the advice of the Prime Minister, accept the resignation or terminate the appointment of any member of the Union Government.
57. The Chamber of Deputies shall be summoned, prorogued or dissolved by the President on the advice of the Prime Minister: Provided that, when the Prime Minister has ceased to retain the support of a majority in the Chamber, the President may refuse to prorogue or dissolve the Chamber on his advice and shall in that event forthwith call upon the Chamber to nominate a new Prime Minister:
Provided further that, if the Chamber fails to nominate a new Prime Minister within fifteen days, it shall be dissolved.
58. (1) Every Bill, passed or deemed to have been passed by both Chambers of Parliament, shall require the signature of the President for its enactment into law.
(2) The President shall promulgate every law enacted by the Parliament.
59. Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive authority of the Union shall be vested in the President; but nothing in this section shall prevent the Parliament from conferring functions upon subordinate authorities, or be deemed to transfer to the President any functions vested in any court, judge, or officer, or any local or other authority by any existing law.
60. The right of pardon shall be vested in the President.
61. (1) The President may communicate with the Parliament by message or address on any matter of national or public importance.
(2) The President may also address a message to the nation at any time on any matter.
62. (1) The President shall not be answerable to either Chamber of Parliament or to any Court for the exercise or performance of the powers and functions of his office or for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of these powers and functions.
(2) The behavior of the President ma , however, be brought under review in either Chamber of Parliament for the purpose 0 sec on 54, or by any Court, tribunal or body, appointed or designated by either Chamber of Parliament for the investigation of its charges under the said section.
(3) The validity of anything purporting to have been done by the President under this Constitution shall not be called in question on the ground that it was done otherwise than in accordance with the provisions contained or referred to in the next succeeding section.
63. (1) The powers and functions conferred on the President by this Constitution shall he exercisable and performable by him only on the advice of the Union Government, save where it is provided by this Constitution that he shall act in his discretion or on the advice or nomination of or on receipt of any communication from any other person or body.
(2) The question whether any, and if so, what advice, nomination or communication was tendered to or received by the President shall not be inquired into in any Court.
64. (1) In the event of the death, resignation, removal from office, absence or incapacity whether temporary or permanent, of the President, or at any time at which the office of the President may be vacant, the powers and functions conferred on the President by this Constitution shall be exercised and performed by a Commission constituted as hereinafter provided.
(2) The Commission shall consist of the following persons, namely, the Chief Justice of the Union, the Speaker of the Chamber of Nationalities and the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies.
person is present, such other person as may be determined by the Chamber, shall act as Speaker.
(3) Such judge of the Supreme Court as has been appointed to perform the duties of the Chief Justice, or if there is no such judge, then the senior available judge of the Supreme Court, shall act as a member of the Commission in place of the Chief Justice on any occasion on which the office of the Chief Justice is vacant or on which the Chief Justice is unable to act.
(4) The Deputy Speaker of the Chamber of Nationalities shall act as a member of the Commission in the place of the Speaker of the Chamber of Nationalities on any occasion on which the office of the Speaker of the Chamber is vacant or on which the said Speaker is unable to act.
(5) The Deputy Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies shall act as a member of the Commission in the place of the Speaker of the Chamber on any occasion on which the office of the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies is vacant or on which the said Speaker isunable to act.
(6) The Commission may act by any two of its members and may actnotwithstanding a vacancy in its membership.
(7) The provisions of this Constitution which relate to the exercise and performancee by the President of the powers and functions conferred on him by this Constitution shall apply to the exercise and performance of the said powers and functions under this section.
