IX.


Part I. The Shan State.


THE SHAN STATE COUNCIL


154. (1) All the members of the Parliament representing the Shan State shall constitute the Shan State Council.
(2) All the representatives from the Shan State in the Chamber of Nationalities shall be elected by the Saohpas of the Shan State from among themselves.
The Saohpas shall not be eligible for membership of the Chamber of Deputies.
(3) Any member of the State Council who shall have ceased to be a member of the Parliament shall be deemed to have vacated his seat in the Council, but may continue to ~ary on his duties until his successor shall have been elected. 
155. The State Council may recommend to the Parliament the passing of any law relating to any matter in respect of which the Council is not competent to legislate.
156. When a Bill has been passed by the State Council it shall be presented to the President for his signature and promulgation.
The President shall sign the Bill within one month from the presentation of the Bill, unless he refers the Bill to the Supreme Court for its decision under the next succeeding section.
157. (1) The President may, in his discretion, refer any Bill presented to him under the last preceding section to the Supreme Court for decision on the question whether such Bill or any specified provision thereof is repugnant to this Constitution.
(2) The Supreme Court, consisting of not less than three judges, shall consider the question referred to it and, after such hearing as it thinks fit, shall pronounce its decision on such question in open Court as soon as may be, and in any case not later than thirty days after the date of such reference.
The decision of the majority of the judges shall, for the purposes of this section, be the decision of the Court.
(3) In every case in which the Supreme Court decides that any provision of the Bill, the subject of a reference to the Supreme Court under this section, is repugnant to this Constitution, the President shall return the Bill to the State Council for reconsideration an~ shall decline to sign it unless the necessary amendments shall have been made thereto.
(4) In every other case, the President shall sign the Bill and promulgate the Act as soon a may be after the decision of the Supreme Court shall have been pronounced.
(5) When the President has signed a Bill presented to him under the last preceding section whether without or after a reference to the Supreme Court, the validity of any provision of the Bill shall not be called in question on the ground that it was beyond the competence of the State Council.
158. The signed text of every Act shall be enrolled for record in the office of the Registrar of the Supreme Court and a copy of the same shall be enrolled for record in the office of the Minister for the Shan State.
159. The Head of the Shan State may from time to time summon and prorogue the State Council:
Provided that there shall be a session of the State Council once at least in every year so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting of the Council in one session and its first sitting in the next session.


GOVERNMENT OF THE SHAN STATE.


160. A member of the Union Government to be known as the Minister for the Shan State shall be appointed by the President on the nomination of the Prime Minister acting in consultation with the Shan State Council from among the members of the Parliament representing the Shan State.
The Minister so appointed shall also be the Head of the Shan State for the purposes of this Constitution.
161. (1) The Head of the State shall be in charge of the administration of the State; that to say, the executive authority of the State shall be exercised by the Head of the State either directly or through officers subordinate to him.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of the next succeeding sectioi the said executive authority shall extend to all matters relating to recruitment to the State civil services, to postings and transfers, and to disciplinary matters relating to the services.
162. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive authority of the State extends to the matters with respect to which the State Council has power to make laws, and in all such matters the decision of the Council shall be binding on the Head of the State.
(2) The Head of the State shall consult the State Council in all other matters relating the State.
(3) In order to facilitate the communication of the decisions and the views of the State Council to the Head of the State, the Council shall at its first meeting after a genei election elect from among its members or otherwise a Cabinet of State Ministers to aid a advise the Head of the State in the exercise of his functions.
163. The Head of the State shall give or cause to be given an account of his work to the State Council in each ordinary session, present or cause to be presented to the Council a report upon all matters relating to the State, and recommend for the consideration of the Council such measures as he thinks fit for promoting the general welfare. 
164. (1) The Head of the State shall prepare or cause to be prepared the estimates of the receipts and of the expenditure of the State for each financial year and shall present them or cause them to be presented to the State Council for consideration. 
(2) Subject to any conditions that may be imposed by the Union, in respect of any contribution from the Union, the State Council shall have power to approve the budget of the State; and in order to enable the President to satisfy himself that the conditions have been duly observed, such budget shall be incorporated in the Union budget.
165. Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, all matters relating to the Constitution of the State including those relating to the powers and duties of the Head of the State, of the State Council and of the Cabinet of State Ministers, and their relations to each other and to the Union Government shall be determined by law. 


Part II. - The Kachin State. 


THE KACHIN STATE COUNCIL.


166. (1) All the members of the Parliament representing the Kachin State shall constitute the Kachin State Council. 
(2) Of the twelve seats in the Chamber of Nationalities six shall be filled by representatives of the Kachins and the other six by those of the non-Kachins of the Kachin State.
(3) Any member of the State Council who shall have ceased to be a member of the Parliament shall be deemed to have vacated his seat in the Council, but may continue to carry on his duties until his successor shall have been elected.
167. (1) A Bill prejudicially affecting any right or privilege which the Kachins or the nonKachins, as a class or communit , enjoyed immediately before the commencement of this Constitution, shall not be deem to have been passed by the Council unless the majority of the members representing the Kachins or the non-Kachins, as the case may be, present and voting, have voted in its favour.
(2) If any question arises in the State Council whether a Bill is of the character described in the last preceding sub-section, the presiding officer shall take the vote of the last members representing the Kachins and those representing the non-Kachins in the Council separately on such question and if a majority of either class of members vote in the affirmative, the Bill shall be deemed to be of the character mentioned.
168. The State Council may recommend to the Parliament the passing of any law relating to any matter in respect of which the Council is not competent to legislate. 
169. When a Bill has been passed by the State Council it shall be presented to the President for his signature and promulgation. 
The President shall sign the Bill within one month from the presentation of the Bill, unless he refers the Bill to the Supreme Court for its decision under the next succeeding section.
170. (1) The President may, in his discretion, refer any Bill presented to him under the last preceding section to the Supreme Court for decision on the question whether such Bill or any specified provision thereof is repugnant to this Constitution.
(2) The Supreme Court, consisting of not less than three judges, shall consider the question referred to it and, after such hearing as it thinks fit, shall pronounce its decision on such question in open Court as soon as may be, and in any case not later than thirt days after the date of such reference.
The decision of the majority of the judges shall, fa the purposes of this section, be the decision of the Court. 
(3) In every case in which the Supreme Court decides that any provision of the Bill, th subject of a reference to the Supreme Court under this section, is repugnant to thi Constitution, the President shall return the Bill to the State Council for reconsideration an shall decline to sign it unless the necessary amendments shall have been made thereto. 	
(4) In every other case, the President shall sign the Bill and promulgate the Act as soon ~ may be after the decision of the Supreme Court shall have been pronounced. 
(5) When the President has signed a Bill presented to him under the last preceding sectia whether without or after a reference to the Supreme Court, the validity of any provision c the Bill shall not be called in question on the ground that it was beyond the competence (the State Council).
171. The signed text of every Act shall be enrolled for record in the office of ti Registrar of the Supreme Court and a copy of the same shall be enrolled for record in t~ office of the Minister for the Kachin State.
 172. The Head of the Kachin State may from time to time summon and prorogue the State Council:
Provided that there shall be a session of the State Council once at least in every year so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting of the Council in one session and its first sitting in the next session. 


GOVERNMENT OF THE KACHIN STATE 


173. A member of the Union Government to be known as the Minister for the Kach State shall be appointed by the President on the nomination of the Prime Minister acting consultation with the Kachin State Council from among the Kachin members of ti Parliament representing the Kachin State. 
The Minister so appointed shall also be the H~ of the Kachin State for the purposes of this Constitution. 
174. (1) The Head of the State shall be in charge of the administration of the State; that to say, the executive authority of the State shall be exercised by the Head of the State either directly or through officers subordinate to him.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of the next succeeding sectio the said executive authority shall extend to all matters relating to recruitment to the State civil services, to postings and transfers, and to disciplinary matters relating to the services: 
Provided that in respect of areas where the non-Kachins form the majority of the population, the Head of the State shall act only in consultation with the membe representing the non-Kachins in the Cabinet in all such matters.
175. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive authority of the Sta extends to the matters with respect to which the State Council has power to make laws, and in all such matters the decision of the Council shall be binding on the Head of the State.
(2) The Head of the State shall consult the State Council in all other matters relating the State. 
 (3) In order to facilitate the communication of the decisions and the views of the Sta Council to the Head of the State, the Council shall at its first meeting after a general election elect from among its members or otherwise a Cabinet of State Ministers to aid and advise the Head of the State in the exercise of his functions:
Provided that not less than one-half of the members of the Cabinet shall be non-Kachins. 
176. The Head of the State shall give or cause to be given an account of his work to the State Council in each ordinary session, present or cause to be presented to the Council, a report upon all matters relating to the State, and recommend for the consideration of the Council such measures as he thinks fit for promoting the general welfare. 
177. (1) The Head of the State shall prepare or cause to be prepared the estimates of the receipts and of the expenditure of the State for each financial year and shall present them or cause them to be presented to the State Council for consideration. 
(2) Subject to any conditions that may be imposed by the Union in respect of any contributions from the Union, the State Council shall have power to approve the budget of the State; and in order to enable the President to satisfy himself that the conditions have been duly observed, such budget shall be incorporated in the Union budget.
178. The provisions of Chapter X of this Constitution shall not apply to the Kachin State.
179. Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, all matters relating to the Constitution of the State including those relating to the powers and duties of the Head of the State, of the State Council and of the Cabinet of State Ministers, and their relations to each other and to the Union Government shall be determined by law.


Part III. - The Karen State.


(1. Substituted by Act LXII, 1951.) 180.(1) The territory hitherto known as the Salween District shall form a constituent unit of the Union of Burma and be hereafter known as "The Karen State".
It shall also include such adjacent areas occupied by the Karens as may be determined by an Act of Parliament.
(See Act No.XIV of 1952 which enacts that the Karen State as constituted under this section shall include the Kya-In Township, the Kawkareik Township, the Hlaingbwe Township, the Pa-an Township and the Thandaung Township.)
(2) All the members of the Parliament representing the Karen State shall constitute the Karen State Council. 
(3) Any member of the State Council who shall have ceased to be a member of the Parliament shall be deemed to have vacated his seat in the Council, but may continue to carry on his duties until his successor shall have been elected.
(4) The State Council may recommend to the Parliament the passing of any law relating to any matter in respect of which the Council is not competent to legislate.
(5) When a Bill has been passed by the State Council it shall be presented to the President for his signature and promulgation.
The President shall sign the Bill within one month from the presentation of the Bill, unless he refers the Bill to the Supreme Court for its decision under sub-section (6).
(6) The President may, in his discretion, refer any Bill presented to him under sub-section (5) to the Supreme Court for decision on the question whether such Bill or any specified provision thereof is repugnant to this Constitution.
(7) The Supreme Court, consisting of not less than three judges, shall consider the question referred to it and, after such hearing as it thinks fit, shall pronounce its decision on such question in open Court as soon as may be and in any case not later than thirty days after the date of such reference.
The decision of the majority of the judges shall, for the purpose of sub-section (6), be the decision of the Court.
(8) In every case in which the Supreme Court decides that any provision of the Bill, the subject of a reference to the Supreme Court under sub-section (6), is repugnant to this Constitution, the President shall return the Bill to the State Council for reconsideration and shall decline to sign it unless the necessary amendments shall have been made thereto.
(9) In every other case, the President shall sign the Bill and promulgate the Act as soon as may be after the decision of the Supreme Court shall have been pronounced. 
(10) When the President has signed a Bill presented to him under sub-section (5) whether without or after a reference to the Supreme Court, the validity of any provision of the Bill shall not be called in question on the ground that it was beyond the competence of the State Council.
(11) The signed text of every Act shall be enrolled for record in the office of the Registrar of the Supreme Court and a copy of the same shall be enrolled for record in the office of the Minister for the Karen State.
(12) The Head of the Karen State may, from time to time, summon and prorogue the State Council: 
Provided that there shall be a session of the State Council once at least in every year so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting of the Council in one session and its first sitting in the next session. 


GOVERNMENT OF THE KAREN STATE. 


[1. Substituted by Act LXII, 1951.] 181. (1) A member of the Union Government to be known as the Minister for the Karen State shall be appointed by the President on the nomination of the Prime Minister acting in consultation with the Karen State Council fron among the members of the Parliament representing the Karen State.
The Minister so appointed shall also be the Head of the Karen State for the purpose of this Constitution. 
(2) The Head of the State shall be in charge of the administration of the State; that is to say, the executive authority of the State shall be exercised by the Head of the State either directly or through officers subordinate to him.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (4), the said executive authority shall extend to all matters relating to recruitment to the State civil services, to postings and transfers and to disciplinary matters relating to these services.
(4) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive authority of the State extends to the matters with respect to which the State Council has power to make laws, and in all such matters the decision of the Council shall be binding on the Head of the State.
(5) The Head of the State shall consult the State Council in all other matters relating to the State.
(6) In order to facilitate the communication of the decisions and the views of the State Council to the Head of the State, the Council shall at its first meeting after a gener election elect from among its members or otherwise a Cabinet of State Ministers to aid ar advise the Head of the State in the exercise of his functions.
(7) The Head of the State shall give or cause to be given an account of his work to the State Council in each ordinary session, present or cause to be presented to the Council report upon all matters relating to the State, and recommend for the consideration of the Council such measures as he thinks fit for promoting the general welfare.
(8) The Head of the State shall prepare or cause to be prepared the estimates of the receipts and of the expenditure of the State for each financial year and shall present them or cause them to be presented to the State Council for consideration. 
(9) Subject to any conditions that may be imposed by the Union inrespect of any contributions from the Union, the State Council shall have power to approve the budget of the State; and in order to enable the President to satisfy himself that the conditions have been duly observed, such budget shall be incorporated in the Union budget.
(10) The provisions of Chapter X of this Constitution shall not apply to the Karen State.
(11) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution all matters relating to the Constitution of the State including those relating to the powers and duties of the Head of the State, of the State Council and of the Cabinet of State Ministers and their relations to each other and to the Union Government shall be determined by law: 
Provided that until the date of the dissolution of the Parliament constituted following the first general elections held under section 233 of the Constitution, the Karen State Council shall be constituted with all the members of the Parliament representing Karens.

Part IV. - The Kayah State.


182. (1) The territory heretofore known as Mongpai State in the Federated Shan States shall be acceded to the Kayah State if the majority of the people of the territory so desire. 
(2) The procedure for ascertaining the desire of the majority shall be such as may be prescribed by law. 
183. (1) Until the Parliament otherwise provides - 
(i) the Sawphyas of Kantarawaddy, Bawlake and Kyebogyi shall represent the Kayah State in the Chamber of Nationalities;
(ii) the Saopha of Mongpai shall also be one of the representatives of the Kayah State in the Chamber of Nationalities on the accession of Mongpai to the Kayah State under the last preceding section;
(iii) the Sawphyas and the Saopha shall not be eligible for...... .........................
(2) All the members of the Parliament representing the Kayah State shall constitute the Kayah State Council. 
(3) Any member of the State Council who shall have ceased to be a member of the Parliament shall be deemed to have vacated his seat in the Council, but may continue to carry on his duties until his successor shall have been elected.
184. The State Council may recommend to the Parliament the passing of any law relating to any matter in respect of which the Council is not competent to legislate.
185. When a Bill has been passed by the State Council it shall be presented to the President for his signature and promulgation. 
The President shall sign the Bill within one month from the presentation of the Bill, unless he refers the Bill to the Supreme Court for its decision under the next succeeding section.
186. (1) The President may, in his discretion, refer any Bill presented to him under the last preceding section to the Supreme Court for decision of the question whether such Bill or any specified provision thereof is repugnant to this Constitution.
(2) The Supreme Court, consisting of not less than three judges, shall consider the question referred to it and, after such hearing as it thinks fit, shall pronounce its decision on such question in open Court as soon as may be, and in any case not later than thirty days after the date of such reference.
The decision of the majority of the judges shall, for the purposes of this section, be the decision of the Court.
(3) In every case in which the Supreme Court decides that any provision of the Bill, the subject of a reference to the Supreme Court under this section, is repugnant to this Constitution, the President shall return the Bill to the State Council for reconsideration and shall decline to sign it unless the necessry amendments shall have been made thereto.
(4) In every other case, the President shall sign the Bill and promulgate the Act as soon as may be after the decision of the Supreme Court shall have been pronounced.
(5) When the President has signed a Bill presented to him under under the last preceding section, whether without or after a reference to the Supreme Court, the validity of any provision of the Bill shall not be called in question on the ground that it was beyond the competence of the State Council. 
187. The signed text of every Act shall be enrolled for record in the office of the Registrar of the Supreme Court and a copy of the same shall be enrolled for record in the office of the Minister for the Kayah State.
188. The Head of the Kayah State may from time to time summon and prorogue the State Council:
Provided that there shall be a session of the State Council once at least in every year so that a period of twelve months shall not intervene between the last sitting of the Council in one session and its first sitting in the next session. 


GOVERNMENT OF THE KAYAH STATE.


189. A member of the Union Government to be known as the Minister for the Kayah State shall be appointed by the President on the nomination of the Prime Minister acting in consultation with the Kayah State Council from among the members of the Parliament representing the Kayah State.
The Minister so appointed shall also be the Head of the Kayah State for the purpose of this Constitution.
190. (1) The Head of the State shall be in charge of the administration of the State; that is to say, the executive authority of the State shall be exercised by the Head of the State either directly or through officers subordinate to him. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the next succeeding section, the said executive authority shall extend to all matters relating to recruitment to the State civil services, to postings and transfers, and to disciplinary matters relating to these services.
191. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive authority of the State extends to the matters with respect to which the State Council has power to make laws, and in all such matters the decision of the Council shall be binding on the Head of the State.
(2) The Head of the State shall consult the State Council in all other matters relating to the State. 
(3) In order to facilitate the communication of the decisions and the views of the State Council to the Head of the State, the Council may at its first meeting after a general election from among its members or otherwise a State Minister or Ministers to aid and advise the Head of the State in the exercise of his functions.
192. The Head of the State shall give or cause to be given an account of his work to the State Council in each ordinary session, present or cause to be presented to the Council a report upon all matters relating to the State, and recommend for the consideration of the Council such measures as he thinks fit for promoting the general welfare.
193.(1) The Head of the State shall prepare or cause to be prepared the estimates of the receipts and of the expenditure of the State for each financial year and shall present them or cause them to be presented to the State Council for consideration. 
(2) Subject to any conditions that may be imposed by the Union in respect of any contributions from the Union, the State Council shall have power to approve the budget of the State; and in order to enable the President to satisfy himself that the conditions have been duly observed, such budget shall be incorporated in the Union budget.
194. Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, all matters relating to the Constitution of the State including those relating to the powers and duties of the Head of the State, of the State Council and of the State Minister or Ministers and their relations to each other and to the Union Government shall be determined by law.


Part V. - SPECIAL DIVISION OF THE CHINS. 


196. There shall be a Special Division of the Chins comprising such areas in the Chin Hills District and the Arakan Hill Tracts as may be determined by the President.
197. (1) A Chin Affairs Council shall be constituted consisting of all the members of the Parliament representing the Chins.
(2) A member of the Union Government to be known as "the Minister for Chin Affairs" shall be appointed by the President on the nomination of the Prime Minister, acting in consultation with the Chin Affairs Council, from amongst the members of the Parliarnent representing the Chins. 
(3) Subject to the powers of the Union Government 
(i) the general administration of the Special Division and in particular all matters relating to recruitment to the civil services in the Special Division, to postings and transfers, and to disciplinary matters relating to these services, and 
(ii) all matters relating to schools and cultural institutions in the Special Division shall be under the superintendence, direction and control of the Minister for Chin Affairs. 
(4) The Chin Affairs Council shall aid and advise the Minister in the discharge of his duties. 
(5) Any member of the Council who shall have ceased to be a member of the Parliament shall be deemed to have vacated his seat in the Council but he may continue to carry on his duties until his successor shall have been elected. 
198. Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, all matters relating to the powers and duties of the Minister and of the Council and their relations to each other and to the Union Government shall be determined by law. 


PART VI.- NEW STATES. 


199. The Parliament may by an Act admit to the Union a new State upon such terms and conditions including the extent of representation of the State in the Parliament as may be specified in the Act.
200. The Parliament may by an Act, with the consent of the Council of every State whose boundaries are affected thereby - 
(a) establish a new unit; (b)increase the area of any unit; (c) diminish the area of any unit; (d) alter the boundaries of any unit; and may, with the like consent, make such supplemental, incidental and consequential provisions as the Parliament may deem necessary or proper.
