II.


Fundamental Rights.


DEFINITION OF "STATE."


9. In this Chapter and in Chapters III and IV, the term "State" means the executive or legislative authority of the Union or of the unit concerned according as the context may require.


CITIZENSHIP.

10. There shall be but one citizenship throughout the Union; that is to say, there shall be no citizenship of the unit as distinct from the citizenship of the Union.
11. (i) Every person, both of whose parents belong or belonged to any of the indigenous races of Burma;
(ii) every person born in any of the territories included within the Union, at least one of whose grand-parents belong or belonged to any of the indigenous races of Burma
(iii) every person born in any of the territories included within the Union, of parents both of whom are, or if they had been alive at the commencement of this Constitution would have been, citizens of the Union;
(iv) every person who was born in any of the territories which at the time of his birth was included within His Britannic Majesty's dominions and who has resided in any of the territories included within the Union for a period of not less than eight years in the ten years immediately preceding the date of the commencement of this Constitution or immediately preceding the 1st January 1942 and who intends to reside permanently therein and who signifies his election of citizenship of the Union in the manner and within the time prescribed by law, shall be a citizen of the Union.
12. Nothing contained in section 11 shall derogate from thepower of the Parliament to make such laws as it thinks fit in respect of citizenship and alienage and any such law may provide for the admission of new classes of citizens or for the termination of the citizenship of any existing classes.


RIGHTS OF EQUALITY.


13. All citizens irrespective of birth, religion, sex or race are equal before the law; that is to say, there shall not be any arbitrary discrimination between one citizen or class of citizens and another.
14. There shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters of public employment and in the exercise of carrying on of any occupation, trade, business or profession.
15. Women shall be entitled to the same pay as that received by men in respect of similar work.


RIGHTS OF FREEDOM.


16. No citizen shall be deprived of his personal liberty, nor his dwelling entered, nor his property confiscated, save in accordance with law.
17. There shall be liberty for the exercise of the following rights subject to law, public order and morality:
(i) The right of the citizens to express freely their convictions and opinions.
(ii) The right of the citizens to assemble peaceably and without arms.
(iii) The right of the citizens to form associations and unions.
Any association or organization whose object or activity is intended or likely to undermine the Constitution is forbidden.
(iv) The right of every citizen to reside and settle in any part of the Union, to acquire property and to follow any occupation, trade, business or profession.
18. Subject to regulation by the law of the Union trade, commerce and intercourse among the units shall be free: Provided that any unit may by law impose reasonable restrictions in the interests of public order, morality, health or safety.
19. (i) Traffic in human beings, and
(ii) forced labour in an form and involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been dulyconvicted, shall he prohibited.
Explanation.
- Nothing in this section shall prevent the State from imposing compulsory service for public purposes without any discrimination on grounds of birth, race, religion or class.


RIGHTS RELATING TO RELIGION.


20. All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess and practise religion subject to public order, morality or health and to the other provisions of this Chapter.
Explanation 1.
- The above right shall not include any economic, financial, political or other secular activities that may be associated with religious practice.
Explanation 2.
- The freedom guaranteed in this section shall not debar the State from enacting laws for the purpose of social welfare and reform.
21. (1) The State recognizes the special position of Buddhism as the falth professed by the great majority of the citizens of the Union.
(2) The State also recognizes Islam, Christianity, Hinduism and Animism as some of the religions existing in the Union at the date of the coming into operation of this Constitution.
(3) The State shall not impose any disabilities or make any discrimination on the ground of religious falth or belief.
(4) The abuse of religion for political purposes is forbidden; and any act which is intended or is likely to promote feelings of hatred, enmity or discord between racial or religious communities or sects is contrary to this Constitution and may be made punishable by law.


CULTURAL AND EDUCATIONAL RIGHTS.


22. No minority, religious, racial or linguistic, shall be discri-minated agalnst in regard to admission into State educational institutions nor shall any religious instruction be compulsorily imposed on it.


ECONOMIC RIGHTS.


23. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the State guarantees the right of private property and of private initiative in the economic sphere.
(2) No person shall be permitted to use the right of private property to the detriment of the general public.
(3) Private monopolist organizations, such as cartels, syndicates and trusts formed for the purpose of dictating prices or for monopolizing the market or otherwise calculated to injure the interests of the national economy, are forbidden.
(4) Private property may be limited or expropriated if the public interest so requires but only in accordance with law which shall prescribe in which cases and to what extent the owner shall be compensated.
(5) Subject to the conditions set out in the last preceding sub-section, individual branches of national economy or single enterprises may be nationalized or acquired by the State by law if the public interest so requires.


RIGHTS IN RELATION TO CRIMINAL LAW.


24. No person shall be convicted of crime except for violation of a law in force at the time of the commission of the act charged as an offense, nor shall he be subject to a penalty greater than that applicable at the time of the commission of the offense.


RIGHTS TO CONSTITUTIONAL REMEDIES.


25. (1) The right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by this Chapter is hereby guaranteed.
(2) Without prejudice to the powers that may be vested in this behalf in other Courts, the Supreme Court shall have power to issue directions in the nature of Habeas Coipus, mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto and certiorari appropriate to the rights guaranteed in this Chapter.
(3) The right to enforce these remedies shall not be suspended unless, in times of war, invasion, rebellion, insurrection or grave emergency, the public safety may so require.
26. Every citizen, whether within or beyond the territories of the Union, shall be entitled to clalm the protection of the Union in his relations with foreign States.
27. Except in times of invasion, rebellion, insurrection or grave emergency, no citizen shall be denied redress by due process of law for any actionable wrong done to or suffered by him.
28. The Parliament may by law determine to what extent any of the rights guaranteed by this Chapter shall be restricted or abrogated for the members of the Defence Forces or of the Forces charged with the malntenance of public order so as to ensure fulfilment of their duties and the malntenance of discipline.
29. The Parliament shall make laws to give effect to those provisions of this Chapter which require such legislation and to prescribe punishments for those acts which are declared to be offenses in this Chapter and are not already punishable.
