VIII.


Union Judiciary.


133. Justice throughout the Union shall be administered in Courts established by this Constitution or by law and by judges appointed in accordance therewith.
134. The Courts shall comprise Courts of first instance and Courts of appeal:
(a) The Courts of first instance shall include a High Court which shall, subject to law, have original and appellate jurisdiction and power to determine all matters and questions whether of law or of fact.
(b) The head of the High Court shall be called "the Chief Justice of the High Court". 
135.(1) The High Court shall have exclusive original jurisdiction 
(a) in all matters arising under any treaty made by the Union;
(b) in all disputes between the Union and a unit or between one unit and another;
(c) in such other matters, if any, as may be defined by law.
(2) If the High Court is satisfied that a case pending in any inferior Court involves or is likely to involve substantially a question of the validity of any law having regard to the provisions of this Constitution, the High Court shall transfer the case to itself for trial.
136.(1) The Court of final appeal shall be called "the Supreme Court".
(2) The head of the Supreme Court shall be called "the Chief Justice of the Union".
(3) Without prejudice to the powers conferred upon the Supreme Court by any other provisions of this Constitution, the Court shall, with such exceptions and subject to sucb regulations as may be prescribed by law, have appellate jurisdiction from all decisions of the High Court, and shall also have appellate jurisdiction from such decisions of other Courts as may be prescribed by law.
137. No law shall be enacted excepting from the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court cases which involve questions as to the validity of any law having regard to the provisions of this Constitution.
138. The decisions of the Supreme Court shall in all cases be final.
139. (1) Every person appointed a judge of the Supreme Court and of the High Cour under this Constitution shall make and subscribe the following declaration:
"I ........ do solemnly and sincerely promise and declare that I will duly and faithfully to the best of my knowledge and abillty execute the office of the Chief Justice (or judge as the case may be) without fear or favour, affection or ill-wil towards any man, and that I will uphold the Constitution and the laws."
(2) This declaration shall be made and subscribed by the Chief Justice of the Union in th~ presence of the President, and by each of the other judges of the Supreme Court and of the judges of the High Court in the presence of the Chief Justice of the Union or the senio: available judge of the Supreme Court.
(3) The declaration shall be made and subscribed by every judge before entering upon hi duties as such judge, and in any case not later than ten days after the date of hi appointment or such later date as may be determined by the President.
(4) Any judge who declines or neglects to make such declaration as aforesaid shall b deemed to have declined to accept the appointment.
140. (1) The Chief Justice of the Union shall be appointed by the President by an orde under his hand and seal, with the approval of both Chambers of the Parliament in join sitting.
(2) All the other judges of the Supreme Court and all the judges of the High Court shal be appointed by the President by an order under his hand and seal, with the approval a both Chambers of the Parliament in joint sitting.
141. Ail judges shall be independent in the exercise of their judicial functions and subje: only to this Constitution and the laws.
142. (1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a judge of the Supreme Coui unless he is a citizen of the Union who was or whose parents were born in any of th territories included within the Union, or unless he has been for at least five years a citize: of the Union; and (a) has been for at least five years a judge of the High Court of Judicature ~ Rangoon or of the High Court established under this Constitution; or 
(b) is an advocate of the High Court of at least fifteen years' standing:
Provided that a person shall not be qualified for appointment as Chief Justice of th Union unless he 
(I) is, or when first appointed to judicial office was, an advocate, and
(ii) is an advocate of at least fifteen years' standing.
(2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a judge of the High Court unless he is a citizen of the Union; and
(a) is an advocate of at least ten years' standing; or
(b) has for at least five years held judicial office in Burma or in the Union not inferior to that of a district and sessions judge or Chief Judge of the Rangoon City Civil Court:
Provided that a person shall not be qualified for appointment as the Chief Justice of the High Court unless he 
(i) is, or when first appointed to judicial office was, an advocate, and
(ii) is an advocate of at least fifteen years' standing.
(3) In computing for the purpose of this section the standing of an advocate, any period during which he has held judicial office after he became an advocate shall be included.
143. (1) A judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court may by resignation under his hand addressed to the President resign his office.
(2) A judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court shall not be removed from office except for proved misbehavior or incapacity.
(3) The charge shall be preferred by either Chamber of Parliament subject to and in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(4) A proposal to either Chamber of Parliament to prefer a charge under this section shall not be entertained except upon a notice of resolution signed by not less than one-fourth of the total membership of that Chamber.
(5) No such proposal shall be adopted by either Chamber of Parliament save upon a resolution of that Chamber, supported by a majority of the members present.
(6) Where the charge relates to a judge of the Supreme Court it shall be investigated by a Special Tribunal consisting of the President or a person appointed by him in his discretion, the Speaker of the Chamber of Nationalities and the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies.
Where the charge relates to a judge of the High Court it shall be investigated by a Special Tribunal consisting of the Chief Justice of the Union, the Speaker of the Chamber of Nationalities and the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies. 
(7) The judge against whom the charge is preferred shall have the right to appear and to be represented at the investigation of the charge.
(8) The Special Tribunal shall, after investigation, submit its report to the Chamber by which the charge was preferred.
The finding of the Special Tribunal declaring that the charge has not been proved, if unanimous, shall be final.
But in all other cases, the report of the Special Tribunal shall be considered by both Chambers of Parliament in Joint sitting.
If, after consideration, a resolution be passed supported by a majority of the members present and voting at the joint sitting declaring that the charge preferred against the judge has been proved and that the misbehavior was, or incapacity is, such as to render him unfit to continue in office, the President shall forthwith by an order under his hand and seal remove from office the judge to whom it relates.
144. Neither the salary of a judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court nor his rights in respect of leave of absence or pension shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment, unless he voluntarily agrees to any reduction in his salary in the event of general economy and retrenchment in relation to all the services of the Union.
145. If the office of the Chief Justice of the Union or of the Chief Justice of the Higli Court becomes vacant, or if either of them is, by reason of absence or for any other reason, unable to perform the duties of his office, those duties shall, until some person appointed tc the vacant office has entered on the duties thereof, or until the Chief Justice of the Urno~ or of the High Court, as the case may be, has resumed his duties, be performed by such other judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court as the President may appoint for the purpose.
146. (1) If at any time there should not be a quorum of the judges of the Supreme Cour available to hold or continue any session of the Court, owing to a vacancy or vacancies, or to the absence through illness or on leave or in the discharge of other duties assigned b~y statute or otherwise, or to the disqualification of a judge or judges, the Chief Justice or an~ acting Chief Justice of the Union, or in their absence, the senior puisne judge, may in writing request the attendance at the sittings of the Court, for such period as may be necessary, of a judge of the High Court, to be designated in writing by the Chief Justice or any acting Chief Justice or in their absence the senior puisne judge of the Supreme Court.
(2) It shall be the duty of the judge, whose attendance has been so requested or who ha been so designated, in priority to the other duties of his office, to attend the sittings of th1 Supreme Court at the time and for the period for which his attendance shall be required and while so attending he shall possess the powers and privileges and shall discharge th duties of a puisne judge of the Supreme Court. 
147. If the office of any puisne judge of the High Court becomes vacant, or if any suc judge is by reason of absence, or for any other reason, unable to perform the duties of hi office, the President may in his discretion appoint a person duly qualified for appointmer as a judge to act as a judge of the Court, and the person so appointed shall, unless th President in his discretion thinks fit to revoke his appointment, be deemed to be a judge c the Court, until some person appointed under sub-section (2) of section 140 of thi Constitution to the vacant office has entered on the duties thereof, or until the permanei judge has resumed his duties.
148. The Supreme Court and the High Court shall be courts of record and shall sit in ti capital city of the Union and at such other place or places as the President may, after consultation with the Chief Justice of the Union from time to time, appoint:
Provided that one or more judges of the High Court shall sit at such place in the Sh~an State as the President may, after consultation with the Chief Justice of the Union, from time to time, appoint.
149. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Constitution relating to the Courts, ti following matters shall be regulated in accordance with law:
(i) The number of judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court, ti remuneration, age of retirement and pension of such judges; and 
(ii) The constitution and organization of such Courts, the distribution of businc among the Courts and judges, their jurisdiction and all matters of procedurt 
150. Nothing in this Constitution shall operate to invalidate the exercise of limit functions and powers of a judicial nature by any person or body of persons duly authori~ by law to exercise such functions or powers notwithstanding that such person or such body of persons is not a judge or a Court appointed or established as such under this Constitution.
151. (1) If at any time it appears to the President that a question of law has arisen, or is likely to arise, which is of such a nature and of such public importance that it is expedient to obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court upon it, he may refer the question to that Court for consideration, and the Court may, after such hearing as it thinks fit, report to the President thereon.
(2) No report shall be made under this section save in accordance with an opinion delivered in open Court with the concurrence of a majority of the judges present at the hearing of the case, but nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to prevent a judge who does not concur from delivering a dissenting opinion.
152. The law declared by the Supreme Court shall, so far as applicable, be recognized as binding on, and shall be followed by, all Courts within the territories subject to the jurisdiction of the Union.
153. The Parliament may make provision by an Act for conferring upon the Supreme Court such supplemental powers not inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Constitution as may appear to be necessary or desirable for the purpose of enabling the Court more effectively to exercise the jurisdiction conferred upon it by or under this Constitution.
