XIV.


Transitory Provisions.


223. All rights, authority, jurisdiction and prerogative heretofore belonging to His Britannic Majesty which appertain or are incidental to the government of the territories in Burma for the time being vested in him by virtue of the Government of Burma Act, 1935, or otherwise, and all rights, authority, jurisdiction and prerogative exercisable by him, by treaty, grant, usage, sufferance or otherwise in, or in relation to, any other territories in Burma, are hereby declared to belong to the Union: 
Provided that any prerogative which subsisted in His Britannic Majesty and was exercisable by him in or in respect of British Burma immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall cease to be exercisable as such by any authority in the Union.
224.All rights and assets which immediately before the commencement of this Constitution were vested in His Britannic Majesty or any other authority for the purposes of the Government of Burma and the Karenni States shall, as from the commencement of this Constitution, be vested in the Union Government. 
In particular, all forests and all mineral and other wealth underground, the waters including mineral and medicinal waters, the sources of natural power, the rail transport, posts, telecommuni-cations and broadcasting shall be from the commencement of this Constitution the property of the Union.
225. (1) Any proceedings relating to contracts or liabilities which, if this Constitution had not come into operation, might have been brought against the Government of Burma, may be brought against the Union Government. 
(2) The Union of Burma may sue and be sued by the name of the Union of Burma.
(3) If at the date of the coming into operation of this Constitution any legal proceeding are pending to which the Government of Burma is a party, the Union Government shall bc deemed to be substituted in those proceedings for the Government of Burma.
226. (1) Subject to this Constitution and to the extent to which they are not inconsisten therewith, the existing laws shall continue to be in force until the same or any of them shal have been repealed or amended by a competent legislature or other competent authority.
(2) The President of the Union may, by Order, Provide that as from such date as may be specified in the Order any existing law shall, until repealed or amended by the Parliament or other competent authority, have effect subject to such adaptations and modifications a appear to him to be necessary or expedient with due regard to the provisions of this Constitution.
227. The Union shall honour all legitimate obligations arising out of any treaties of agreements which immediately before the commencement of this Constitution were in foro between the Government of Burma, or His Britannic Majesty or His Majesty's Governmen in the United Kingdom acting on behalf of the Government of Burma, and the Head o Government of any other State, provided that such other State honours any reciproca obligations towards the Union. 
228. All Courts existing at the date of the coming into operation of this Constitution shal continue to exercise their jurisdiction until new Courts are established by law in accordano with this Constitution.
All cases, civil, criminal and revenue, pending in the said Courts shall be disposed of as if this Constitution had not come into operation.
229. All persons who were in the service of the Government of Burma immediately before the coming into operation of this Constitution shall continue in service until the Union Government provide otherwise.
230. For the purpose of removing any unforeseen difficulties, [...]particularly in relation to the transition from the provisions of [...] Government of Burma Act, 1935, to the provisions of this Constitution,[...] the President of the Union may by Order direct that this Constitution [...] shall during such period as may be specified in the Order have [...] subject to such amendments, whether by way of variation, addition [...]repeal, as he may deem to be necessary or expedient.
No such  Order ~...] shall be made under this section after the first meeting of the Union [...] Parliament duly constituted under Chapter VI; and no such ~...] shall be made unless it is approved by a resolution passed by [...] Constituent Assembly exercising the powers of both Chambers [...] Parliament under the provisions of the next succeeding section. 
231. (1) Until the first meeting of the Union Parliament [duly] constituted under Chapter VI, this Constituent Assembly shall [itself] exercise all the powers, discharge all the duties and enjoy all [the] privileges of both Chambers of Parliament.
(2) Such person as the Constituent Assembly shall [have] elected in this behalf shall be the Provisional President of the Union [...] until a President has been duly elected under Chapter V and [...] exercise all the powers and discharge all the duties conferred or imposed [...] upon the President by this Constitution.
A period of service as Provisional President shall not count as [...] term of service for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 48.
(3) Such persons as shall have been elected in this behalf [...] by the Constituent Assembly shall be the Prime Minister and other [...] members of the Provisional Union Government, until the President [...] duly elected under Chapter V has appointed other persons in accordance [...] with the provisions of section 56.
232. (1) Until the first meeting of the Union Parliament duly [...] constituted under Chapter VI - 
(a) all the members of the Constituent Assembly representing the Federated Shan States shall constitute the Provisional [...] Shan State Council; 
(b) all the members of the Constituent Assembly representing the
Myitkyina and Bhamo Districts shall constitute the Provisional Kachin State Council;
(c) all the members of the Constituent Assembly representing the Karens shall constitute the Provisional Karen Affairs Council;
(d) all the members of the Constituent Assembly representing the Karenni States and such other persons from the Kayah State not exceeding two as may be nominated by the Provisional President shall constitute the Provisional Kayah State Council; and
(e) all the members of the Constituent Assembly representing the Chin Hills District and the Arakan Hill Tracts shall constitute the Provisional Chin Affairs Council. 
(2) Each of the aforesaid Provisional Councils shall exercise all the powers and discharge all the duties of the corresponding Council constituted under Chapter IX. 
(4) Local self-government in cantonment areas, the constitution and powers within such areas of cantonment authorities, the regulation of house accommodation in such areas and the delimitation of such areas.
(5) Arms, fire-arms, ammunition and explosives.
(6) Atomic energy, and mineral resources essential to its production.
(7) Conduct of war.
2. External Affairs:
(1) Diplomatic, consular and trade representation.
(2) United Nations Organization.
(3) Participation in international conferences, associations and other bodies and implementing of decisions made thereat.
(4) The declaration of war and conclusion of peace.
(5) The entering into and implementing of treaties and agreements with other countries.
(6) Regulation of trade and commerce with foreign countries.
(7) Foreign loans.
(8) Citizens; aliens; acquisition and termination of citizenship.
(9) Extradition.
(10) Passports and visas.
(11) Foreign jurisdiction.
(12) Admiralty jurisdiction.
(13) Piracies, offenses committed on the high seas and offenses committed in the air against the law of nations.
(14) Admission into, and emigration and expulsion from, the Union.
(15) Fishing and fisheries beyond territorial waters.
(16) Import and export across customs frontiers as defined by the Union Government.
3. Communications:
(1) Port and inter-unit quarantine; seamen s and marine hospitals and hospitals connected with port quarantine.
(2) Airways.
(3) Highways and waterways declared by the Union to be Union highways and waterways.
(4) Shipping and navigation as regards mechanically-propelled vessels on inland waterways declared by the Union to be Union waterways; the rule of the road on such waterways; carriage of passengers and goods on such waterways.
(5) Railways.
(6) Marine shipping and navigation, including shipping and navigation on tida waters.
(7) Major ports, that is to say, the declaration and delimitation of such ports and the constitution and powers of port authorities therein.
(8) Aircraft and air navigation; the provision of aerodromes; regulation and organization of air traffic and of aerodromes.
(9) Carriage of passengers and goods by sea or by air.
(10) Lighthouses, including lightships, beacons and other provisions for thi safety of shipping and aircraft.
(11) Posts and telegraphs, telephones, wireless, broadcasting and other like form of communication.
4. Finance:
(1) The borrowing of money on the credit of the Union.
(2) Duties of customs including export duties.
(3) Duties of excise excluding those enumerated in the State
Legislative List but including taxes on the production, consumption and sale of electricity.
(4) Taxes on the sale of goods.
(5) Taxes on companies.
(6) Taxes on income.
(7) Taxes on the capital value of the assets of individuals and companies.
(8) Taxes on the capital of companies.
(9) Estate duty and duties in respect of succession to property.
(10) Excess Profits Tax.
(11) Savings Bank.
(12) Stamp duty in respect of bills of exchange, cheques, promissory notes as other documents.
(13) Terminal taxes on goods or passengers carried by railway, sea or air.
(14) Taxes on railway fares and freights.
(15) Fees in respect of any of the matters in this list but not including fees taken in any Court subordinate to the High Court.
5. General:
(1) The Reserve Bank; banking including incorporation of banks, and the issue of paper money.
(2) Currency, coinage and legal tender.
(3) Enquiries, surveys and statistics for the purposes of the Union.
(4) Acquisition of property for the purposes of the Union.
(5) Any Museum, library or other institutions declared by Union law to be of national importance.
(6) Union agencies and institutes for the following purposes, that is to say, for research, for professional or technical training, or for the promotion of special studies.
(7) Census.
(8) Union Services.
(9) Elections to the Union Parliament subject to the provisions of the Constitution.
(10) Emoluments and allowances of the President, the salaries and allowances of the Prime Minister and other members of the Union Government; the salaries of the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker of the Chamber of Nationalities; the salaries of the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies; the salaries, allowances and privileges of members of the Union Parliament. 
(11) Public debt of the Union.
(12) Criminal Law and Procedure.
(13) Civil Law and Procedure including in particular the laws relating to - infants and minors; adoption; transfer of property; trusts and trustees; contracts; arbitration; insolvency; actionable wrongs; lunacy.
(14) Law of Evidence.
(15) Legal, medical and other professions.
(16) Newspaper, books and printing presses.
(17) Poisons and dangerous drugs.
(18) Mechanically propelled vehicles.
(19) Factories.
(20) Welfare of labour; conditions of labour; employers' liability and workmen's compensation; health insurance; old age pensions.
(21) Unemployment insurance.
(22) Trade Unions; industrial and labour disputes.
(23) Electricity.
(24) Insurance.
(25) Company law.
(26) Cheques, bills of exchange, promissory notes and other like instruments.
(27) Copyright; inventions; patents; trade marks and merchandise marks; trad designs.
(28) Planning.
(29) Regulation of land tenures, including the relation of landlord and tenant an the collection of rents; transfer, alienation and devolution of land.
(30) Ancient and historical monuments; archaeological sites and remains.
(31) Standard weights and measures.
(32) Opium, except as to excise duties thereon.
(33) Petroleum and other liquids and substances declared by Union law to be dangerously inflammable.
(34) Development of industries, where development under Union control declared by Union law to be expedient in the public interests.
(35) Co-operative societies.
(36) Regulation of forests, mines and oil-fields (including labour and safety mines and oil-fields) and mineral development.
(37) Migration within the Union.
(38) Jurisdiction and powers of all Courts with respect to any of the matte; enumerated in this list.
(39) Offences against laws with respect to any of the matters in this list.
(40) Any other matter not enumerated in List II.
List II. - State Legislative List.
[See Section 92 (2).]
1. Constitutional Affairs: 
(1) The constitution of the State, subject to the provisions of this Constitution.
(2) State Public Services and State Public Service Commission.
(3) State pensions, that is to say, pensions payable by the State or out of the State Revenues.
(4) The salaries of the State Ministers, and of the Chairman of the State Council; salaries, allowances and privileges of the members of the State Council.
2. Economic Affairs:
(1) Agriculture; cattle pounds and the prevention of cattle trespass. 
(2) Fisheries within the State.
(3) Land, land revenue; land improvement and agricultural loans; colonization; encumbered and attached estates; treasure trove. 
(4) Works, lands and buildings vested in or in the possession of the State.
(5) Markets and fairs.
(6) Water, that is to say, water supplies, irrigation and canals, drainage and embankments, water storage, but excluding inter-unit nvers and water-courses.
(7) Capitation and mat}wmeaa taxes.
(8) Duties of excise on the following goods manufactured or produced in the State and countervailing duties at the same or lower rates on similar goods manufactured or produced elsewhere in the Union:
(i) Alcoholic liquors for human consumption.
(ii) Opium.
(iii) Indian hemp and other narcotics; non-narcotic drugs.
(iv) Medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in item (ii) or (iii) above.
(9) Taxes on trades and employments.
(10) Taxes on animals and boats.
(11) Taxes on entertainments, amusements, betting and gambling.
(12) Tolls.
3. Security:
(1) Public order (but not including the use of naval, military or air forces of the Union).
(2) Police including Village Police.
(3) The administration of justice; constitution and organization of all Courts subordinate to the High Court, and fees taken therein; preventive detention for reasons connected with the maintenance of public order; persons subject to such detention.
(4) Jurisdiction and powers of all Courts subordinate to the High Court, wit respect to any of the matters enumerated in this list.
(5) Prisons; persons detained therein; arrangements with other units for the u~ of prisons and other institutions. 
(6) Offences against laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in th list.
4. Communications:
(1) Roads, bridges, ferries and other means of communication other than such extend beyond the borders of the State.
(2) Municipal tramways; rope-ways.
(3) Inland waterways and traffic thereon. 
(4) Local works and undertakings within the State other than railways, subject the power of the Union Parliament to declare any work a national work as to provide for its construction by arrangement with State Council otherwise. 
5. Education:
(1) Education excluding, for a period of ten years from the commencement this Constitution and thereafter until the Union Parliament otherwi provides, University, higher technical and professional education.
(2) All educational institutions controlled or financed by the State.
(3) Libraries, museums and other similar institutions controlled or financed I the State.
(4) Theatres, dramatic performances and cinemas, but not including the sancti of cinematographic films for exhibiflon.
6. Public Health:
(1) Public Health and sanitation.
(2) The establishment, maintenance and management of hospitals, asylums ~ dispensaries.
(3) Registration of births, deaths and marriages.
(4) Burials and burial grounds.
7. Local Government:
(1) Municipalities and other local authorities for the purpose of local self-government or village administration.
(2) Charities and charitable institutions.
8. General:
(1) Relief of the poor.
(2) Enquiries and statistics for the purpose of any of the matters enumerated in this list.
(3) Generally all matters which in the opinion of the President are of a merely local or private nature in the State.
FOURTH SCHEDULE.
State Revenue List.
 (See Section 96.)
1. Land Revenue:
(i) Land revenue proper.
(ii) Rents and fees of fisheries.
(iii) Royalty on petroleum.
(iv) Royalty on minerals and taxes on mineral rights.
(v) Royalty on rubber.
(vi) Capitation and Thathameda taxes.
2. Duties of Excise on the following goods manufactured or produced in the State and countervailing duties at the same or lower rates on similar goods manufactured or produced elsewhere in the Union: - 
(i) Alcoholic liquors for human consumption.
(ii) Opium.
(iii) Indian hemp and other narcotics; non-narcotic drugs.
(iv) Medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in item (ii) or (iii) above.
3. Fees taken in Courts subordinate to the High Court.
4. Forests.
5. Registration.
6. Taxes on trades and employments.
7. Taxes on animals and boats.
8. Taxes on entertainments, amusements, betting and gambling.
9. Taxes under the State Motor Vehicles Taxation Acts.
10.Irrigation dues.
11.Interests on advances made from the State revenues and on State investments.
12.Contributions from component parts to the State.
13.Contributions from the Union.
14.All fees, fines, sale proceeds and rents of property belonging to the State, recoveries of over-payments and payments for services rendered in connection with any or all matters enumerated above and also in connection with the following:
 (a) Administration of justice.
 (b) Jails and convict settlements.
 (c) Police.
 (d) Education.
 (e) Medical.
 (f) Public health.
 (g) Agriculture.
 (h) Veterinary.
 (i) Co-operative societies.
 (j) Registration of births, deaths and marriages.
 (k) Civil works.
 (1) Receipts in aid of superannuation of State employees.
 (m) Stationery and printing.
 (n) Unclaimed deposits.
 (o) Treasure trove.
 (p) Tolls.
 (q) Extraordinary receipts.
