IV.


Directive Principles of State Policy.


32. The principles set forth in this Chapter are intended for the general guidance of the State. The application of these principles in legislation and administration shall he the care of the State but shall not be enforceable in any court of law.
33. The State shall direct its policy towards securing to each citizen 
(i) the right to work,
(ii) the right to maintenance in old age and during sickness or loss of capacity to work,
(iii) the right to rest and leisure, and
(iv) the right to education.
In particular the State shall make provision for free and compulsory primary education.
34. The State shall pay special attention to the young and promote their education.
35. The State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker and less advanced sections of the people and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation.
36. The State shall regard the raising of the standard of living of its people and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties.
37. (1) The State shall ensure that the strength and health of workers and the tender age of children shall not be abused and that they shall not be forced by economic necessity to take up occupations unsuited to their sex, age and strength.
(2) The State shall specially direct its policy towards protecting the interests of nursing mothers and infants by establishing maternity and infant welfare centres, children's homes and day nurseries and towards securing to mothers in employment the right to leave with pay before and after child birth.
38. The State shall promote the improvement of public health by organizing and controlling health services, hospitals, dispensaries, sanatoria, nursing and convalescent homes and other health institutions.
39. The State shall take special care of the physical education of the people in general and of the youth in particular in order to increase the health and working capacity of the people and in order to strengthen the defensive capacity of the State.
40. The State shall ensure disabled &-Servicemen a decent living and free occupational training. The children of fallen soldiers and children orphaned by war shall be under the special care of the State.
41. The economic life of the Union shall be planned with the aim of increasing the public wealth, of improving the material conditions of the people and raising their cultural level, of consolidating the independence of the Union and strengthening its defensive capacity.
42. The State shall direct its policy towards giving material assistance to economic organizations not working for private profit. Preference shall be given to co-operative and similar economic organizations.
43. All useful arts and sciences, research and cultural institutes and the study of Pali and Sanskrit shall enjoy the protection and support of the State.
44. (1) The State shall direct its policy towards operation of all public utility undertakings by itself or local bodies or by peoples' co-operative organizations.
(2) The State shall direct its policy towards exploitation of all natural resources in the Union by itself or local bodies or by peoples' co-operative organizations.
