XIII.


General Provisions.


215. The National Flag shall be rectangular in shape and red in colour with a canton of dark blue.
In the canton shall be a five-pointed large white star with five smaller similar stars between the points.
One of the five points of each star, large or small, shall direct upwards. 
The dimensions of the Flag shall be nine feet by five feet and the canton shall be four feet by two and a half feet.
The size of the large star shall be such that a circle draw through the five points shall have a diameter of eighteen inches and the smaller stars nine inches.
National Flags of other sizes shall conform as nearly as possible to the above proportions.
216. The official language of the Union shall be Burmese, provided that the use of the English language may be permitted. 
217. Two copies of the Constitution shall be made, one in the Burmese language and th other in the English language, both copies to be signed by the President of the Constituer Assembly and enrolled for record in the office of the Registrar of the Supreme Court.
Suc copies shall be conclusive evidence of the provisions of this Constitution.
218. No certificate, licence or other form of authorization for the operation of any publi utility service shall be granted by the Union or by a State except to - 
(i) organizations controlled by the Union or by a State or by
local authorities or
(ii) citizens of the Union, or
(iii) companies or other associations organized under the laws in force in tI Union, not less than sixty per cent of whose capital is owned by the Unic or by any State or by any local authority or by citizens of the Union; nor shall such certificate, licence or authorization be granted by the Union or by a State any individual, firm or company for a longer period than twenty-five years and exce under the condition that it shall be subject to amendment, alteration or repeal by law wh~ the public interest so requires. 
219. All timber and mineral lands, forests, water, fisheries, minerals, coal, petroleum ai other mineral oils, all sources of potential energy and other natural resources shall be exploited and developed by the Union; provided that subject to such specific exceptions may be authorized by an Act of Parliament in the interest of the Union, the Union may grant the right of exploitation, development or utilization of the same to the citizens of the Union or to companies or associations at least sixty per cent of the capital of which is owned by such citizens: 
Provided further that no such right shall be granted by the Union except under the condition that it shall be subject to amendment, alteration or repeal by the Parliament when the public interest so requires.
No certificate, licence, or other form of authorization for the exploitation, development or utilization of any of the aforesaid natural resources of the Union shall be granted in future for a period exceeding twenty-five years or be renewable for a further period exceeding twenty-five years.
220. Subject to such specific exceptions as may be authorized by an Act of Parliament in the interest of the Union, the Union shall not grant any agricultural land for the exploitation, development or utilization to any persons other than the citizens of the Union.
221. The Parliament shall, by law, set up a Public Service Commission to assist the Union Government in matters relating to recruitment to the civil services of the Union, and to advise in disciplinary matters affecting the services.
The composition, powers and functions of the Commission and the terms of service of its members shall be defined by an Act of the Parliament. 


INTERPRETATION.


222. (1) In this Constitution, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions have the meanings hereby respectively assigned to them, that is to say, - "Burma" has the same meaning as in the Government of Burma Act, 1935; "Existing law" means any law, Ordinance, Order, bye-law, rule or regulation passed or made before the commencement of this Constitution by any legislature, authority or person in any territories included within the Union of Burma being a legislature, authority or person having power to make such law, Ordinance, Order, bye-law, rule or regulation; "Saohpa" or "Sawphya" means, in the event of any dispute, the person recognized as such by the President in accordance with the rules of succession applicable; "Unit" means - 
(a) any State forming a constituent unit of the Union of Burma;
(b) all the territories of the Union of Burma not forming part of any State.
(2) In Chapters VI, VII, X, XI and XIII and in Third and Fourth Schedules, the term "State" means, save where a contrary intention appears, the Shan State, the Kachin State, the Kayah State or any new State that may be constituted under Part VI of Chapter IX.
(3) Save where a contrary intention appears, the provisions of the Burma General Clauses Act shall extend to the interpretation and application of this Constitution.
